attention is all you need 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 provided proper attribution is provided, google hereby grants permission to reproduce the tables and figures in this paper solely for use in journalistic or scholarly works. 
 
 attention is all you need 

 
 ashish vaswani
 google brain
 avaswani google.com
 noam shazeer 1 1 footnotemark: 1 
 google brain
 noam google.com
 niki parmar 1 1 footnotemark: 1 
 google research
 nikip google.com
 jakob uszkoreit 1 1 footnotemark: 1 
 google research
 usz google.com
 llion jones 1 1 footnotemark: 1 
 google research
 llion google.com
 aidan n. gomez 1 1 footnotemark: 1 
 university of toronto
 aidan cs.toronto.edu 
 ukasz kaiser 1 1 footnotemark: 1 
 google brain
 lukaszkaiser google.com
 illia polosukhin 1 1 footnotemark: 1 
 illia.polosukhin gmail.com
 
 equal contribution. listing order is random. jakob proposed replacing rnns with self-attention and started the effort to evaluate this idea.
ashish, with illia, designed and implemented the first transformer models and has been crucially involved in every aspect of this work. noam proposed scaled dot-product attention, multi-head attention and the parameter-free position representation and became the other person involved in nearly every detail. niki designed, implemented, tuned and evaluated countless model variants in our original codebase and tensor2tensor. llion also experimented with novel model variants, was responsible for our initial codebase, and efficient inference and visualizations. lukasz and aidan spent countless long days designing various parts of and implementing tensor2tensor, replacing our earlier codebase, greatly improving results and massively accelerating our research.
work performed while at google brain.work performed while at google research. 

 abstract 
 the dominant sequence transduction models are based on complex recurrent or convolutional neural networks that include an encoder and a decoder. the best performing models also connect the encoder and decoder through an attention mechanism. we propose a new simple network architecture, the transformer, based solely on attention mechanisms, dispensing with recurrence and convolutions entirely. experiments on two machine translation tasks show these models to be superior in quality while being more parallelizable and requiring significantly less time to train. our model achieves bleu on the wmt english-to-german translation task, improving over the existing best results, including ensembles, by over 2 bleu. on the wmt english-to-french translation task, our model establishes a new single-model state-of-the-art bleu score of after training for days on eight gpus, a small fraction of the training costs of the best models from the literature. we show that the transformer generalizes well to other tasks by applying it successfully to english constituency parsing both with large and limited training data. 

 
 1 introduction 
 
 recurrent neural networks, long short-term memory and gated recurrent neural networks in particular, have been firmly established as state of the art approaches in sequence modeling and transduction problems such as language modeling and machine translation numerous efforts have since continued to push the boundaries of recurrent language models and encoder-decoder architectures 

 recurrent models typically factor computation along the symbol positions of the input and output sequences. aligning the positions to steps in computation time, they generate a sequence of hidden states h t subscript h t as a function of the previous hidden state h t 1 subscript 1 h t-1 and the input for position t t this inherently sequential nature precludes parallelization within training examples, which becomes critical at longer sequence lengths, as memory constraints limit batching across examples.
recent work has achieved significant improvements in computational efficiency through factorization tricks and conditional computation while also improving model performance in case of the latter. the fundamental constraint of sequential computation, however, remains. 

 attention mechanisms have become an integral part of compelling sequence modeling and transduction models in various tasks, allowing modeling of dependencies without regard to their distance in the input or output sequences in all but a few cases however, such attention mechanisms are used in conjunction with a recurrent network. 

 in this work we propose the transformer, a model architecture eschewing recurrence and instead relying entirely on an attention mechanism to draw global dependencies between input and output. the transformer allows for significantly more parallelization and can reach a new state of the art in translation quality after being trained for as little as twelve hours on eight p gpus. 

 
 
 2 background 
 
 the goal of reducing sequential computation also forms the foundation of the extended neural gpu bytenet and convs2s all of which use convolutional neural networks as basic building block, computing hidden representations in parallel for all input and output positions. in these models, the number of operations required to relate signals from two arbitrary input or output positions grows in the distance between positions, linearly for convs2s and logarithmically for bytenet. this makes it more difficult to learn dependencies between distant positions in the transformer this is reduced to a constant number of operations, albeit at the cost of reduced effective resolution due to averaging attention-weighted positions, an effect we counteract with multi-head attention as described in 

 self-attention, sometimes called intra-attention is an attention mechanism relating different positions of a single sequence in order to compute a representation of the sequence. self-attention has been used successfully in a variety of tasks including reading comprehension, abstractive summarization, textual entailment and learning task-independent sentence representations 

 end-to-end memory networks are based on a recurrent attention mechanism instead of sequence-aligned recurrence and have been shown to perform well on simple-language question answering and language modeling tasks 

 to the best of our knowledge, however, the transformer is the first transduction model relying entirely on self-attention to compute representations of its input and output without using sequence-aligned rnns or convolution.
in the following sections, we will describe the transformer, motivate self-attention and discuss its advantages over models such as and 

 
 
 3 model architecture 
 
 the transformer - model architecture. 

 most competitive neural sequence transduction models have an encoder-decoder structure here, the encoder maps an input sequence of symbol representations ( x 1 x n ) subscript 1 subscript (x 1 ,.,x n ) to a sequence of continuous representations ( z 1 z n ) subscript 1 subscript (z 1 ,.,z n ) given the decoder then generates an output sequence ( y 1 y m ) subscript 1 subscript (y 1 ,.,y m ) of symbols one element at a time. at each step the model is auto-regressive consuming the previously generated symbols as additional input when generating the next. 

 the transformer follows this overall architecture using stacked self-attention and point-wise, fully connected layers for both the encoder and decoder, shown in the left and right halves of respectively. 

 
 encoder and decoder stacks 
 
 encoder: 
 
 the encoder is composed of a stack of n 6 6 n 6 identical layers. each layer has two sub-layers. the first is a multi-head self-attention mechanism, and the second is a simple, position-wise fully connected feed-forward network. we employ a residual connection around each of the two sub-layers, followed by layer normalization that is, the output of each sub-layer is layernorm ( x sublayer ( x ) ) layernorm sublayer (x (x)) where sublayer ( x ) sublayer (x) is the function implemented by the sub-layer itself. to facilitate these residual connections, all sub-layers in the model, as well as the embedding layers, produce outputs of dimension d model subscript model d 

 
 decoder: 
 
 the decoder is also composed of a stack of n 6 6 n 6 identical layers. in addition to the two sub-layers in each encoder layer, the decoder inserts a third sub-layer, which performs multi-head attention over the output of the encoder stack. similar to the encoder, we employ residual connections around each of the sub-layers, followed by layer normalization. we also modify the self-attention sub-layer in the decoder stack to prevent positions from attending to subsequent positions. this masking, combined with fact that the output embeddings are offset by one position, ensures that the predictions for position i i can depend only on the known outputs at positions less than i i 

 

 attention 
 
 an attention function can be described as mapping a query and a set of key-value pairs to an output, where the query, keys, values, and output are all vectors. the output is computed as a weighted sum of the values, where the weight assigned to each value is computed by a compatibility function of the query with the corresponding key. 

 
 .1 scaled dot-product attention 
 
 we call our particular attention "scaled dot-product attention" ( ). the input consists of queries and keys of dimension d k subscript d k and values of dimension d v subscript d v we compute the dot products of the query with all keys, divide each by d k subscript d k and apply a softmax function to obtain the weights on the values. 

 in practice, we compute the attention function on a set of queries simultaneously, packed together into a matrix q q the keys and values are also packed together into matrices k k and v v we compute the matrix of outputs as: 

 

 attention ( q k v ) softmax ( q k t d k ) v attention softmax superscript subscript (q,k,v) ( qk t d k )v 
 
 (1) 

 
 
 the two most commonly used attention functions are additive attention and dot-product (multiplicative) attention. dot-product attention is identical to our algorithm, except for the scaling factor of 1 d k 1 subscript d k additive attention computes the compatibility function using a feed-forward network with a single hidden layer. while the two are similar in theoretical complexity, dot-product attention is much faster and more space-efficient in practice, since it can be implemented using highly optimized matrix multiplication code. 

 while for small values of d k subscript d k the two mechanisms perform similarly, additive attention outperforms dot product attention without scaling for larger values of d k subscript d k we suspect that for large values of d k subscript d k the dot products grow large in magnitude, pushing the softmax function into regions where it has extremely small gradients 1 1 1 to illustrate why the dot products get large, assume that the components of q q and k k are independent random variables with mean 0 0 and variance 1 1 1 then their dot product, q k i 1 d k q i k i superscript subscript 1 subscript subscript subscript q k i 1 d k q i k i has mean 0 0 and variance d k subscript d k to counteract this effect, we scale the dot products by 1 d k 1 subscript d k 

 
 
 .2 multi-head attention 

 
 
 scaled dot-product attention 

 

 multi-head attention 

 
 
 (left) scaled dot-product attention. (right) multi-head attention consists of several attention layers running in parallel. 

 instead of performing a single attention function with d model subscript model d -dimensional keys, values and queries, we found it beneficial to linearly project the queries, keys and values h h times with different, learned linear projections to d k subscript d k d k subscript d k and d v subscript d v dimensions, respectively.
on each of these projected versions of queries, keys and values we then perform the attention function in parallel, yielding d v subscript d v -dimensional output values. these are concatenated and once again projected, resulting in the final values, as depicted in 

 multi-head attention allows the model to jointly attend to information from different representation subspaces at different positions. with a single attention head, averaging inhibits this. 

 

 multihead ( q k v ) multihead (q,k,v) 
 concat ( head 1 head h ) w o absent concat subscript head 1 subscript head h superscript ( head 1 head h )w o 

 
 
 where head i where subscript head i head i 
 attention ( q w i q k w i k v w i v ) absent attention subscript superscript subscript superscript subscript superscript (qw q i ,kw k i ,vw v i ) 

 

 where the projections are parameter matrices w i q d model d k subscript superscript superscript subscript model subscript w q i d d k w i k d model d k subscript superscript superscript subscript model subscript w k i d d k w i v d model d v subscript superscript superscript subscript model subscript w v i d d v and w o h d v d model superscript superscript subscript subscript model w o hd v d 

 in this work we employ h 8 8 h 8 parallel attention layers, or heads. for each of these we use d k d v d model h subscript subscript subscript model d k d v d h 
due to the reduced dimension of each head, the total computational cost is similar to that of single-head attention with full dimensionality. 

 
 
 .3 applications of attention in our model 
 
 the transformer uses multi-head attention in three different ways: 

 
 
 in "encoder-decoder attention" layers, the queries come from the previous decoder layer, and the memory keys and values come from the output of the encoder. this allows every position in the decoder to attend over all positions in the input sequence. this mimics the typical encoder-decoder attention mechanisms in sequence-to-sequence models such as 

 

 the encoder contains self-attention layers. in a self-attention layer all of the keys, values and queries come from the same place, in this case, the output of the previous layer in the encoder. each position in the encoder can attend to all positions in the previous layer of the encoder. 

 

 similarly, self-attention layers in the decoder allow each position in the decoder to attend to all positions in the decoder up to and including that position. we need to prevent leftward information flow in the decoder to preserve the auto-regressive property. we implement this inside of scaled dot-product attention by masking out (setting to - ) all values in the input of the softmax which correspond to illegal connections. see 

 

 

 position-wise feed-forward networks 
 
 in addition to attention sub-layers, each of the layers in our encoder and decoder contains a fully connected feed-forward network, which is applied to each position separately and identically. this consists of two linear transformations with a relu activation in between. 

 

 ffn ( x ) max ( 0 x w 1 b 1 ) w 2 b 2 ffn 0 subscript 1 subscript 1 subscript 2 subscript 2 (x) (0,xw 1 b 1 )w 2 b 2 
 
 (2) 

 
 
 while the linear transformations are the same across different positions, they use different parameters from layer to layer. another way of describing this is as two convolutions with kernel size 1. the dimensionality of input and output is d model subscript model d and the inner-layer has dimensionality d f f subscript d ff 

 
 
 embeddings and softmax 
 
 similarly to other sequence transduction models, we use learned embeddings to convert the input tokens and output tokens to vectors of dimension d model subscript model d we also use the usual learned linear transformation and softmax function to convert the decoder output to predicted next-token probabilities. in our model, we share the same weight matrix between the two embedding layers and the pre-softmax linear transformation, similar to in the embedding layers, we multiply those weights by d model subscript model d 

 
 
 positional encoding 
 
 since our model contains no recurrence and no convolution, in order for the model to make use of the order of the sequence, we must inject some information about the relative or absolute position of the tokens in the sequence. to this end, we add "positional encodings" to the input embeddings at the bottoms of the encoder and decoder stacks. the positional encodings have the same dimension d model subscript model d as the embeddings, so that the two can be summed. there are many choices of positional encodings, learned and fixed 

 in this work, we use sine and cosine functions of different frequencies: 

 

 p e ( p o s 2 i ) s i n ( p o s 2 i d model ) subscript 2 superscript 2 subscript model pe (pos,2i) sin(pos 2i d ) 

 
 
 p e ( p o s 2 i 1 ) c o s ( p o s 2 i d model ) subscript 2 1 superscript 2 subscript model pe (pos,2i 1) cos(pos 2i d ) 

 

 where p o s pos is the position and i i is the dimension. that is, each dimension of the positional encoding corresponds to a sinusoid. the wavelengths form a geometric progression from 2 2 2 to 2 2 2 we chose this function because we hypothesized it would allow the model to easily learn to attend by relative positions, since for any fixed offset k k p e p o s k subscript pe pos k can be represented as a linear function of p e p o s subscript pe pos 

 we also experimented with using learned positional embeddings instead, and found that the two versions produced nearly identical results (see row (e)). we chose the sinusoidal version because it may allow the model to extrapolate to sequence lengths longer than the ones encountered during training. 

 

 4 why self-attention 
 
 in this section we compare various aspects of self-attention layers to the recurrent and convolutional layers commonly used for mapping one variable-length sequence of symbol representations ( x 1 x n ) subscript 1 subscript (x 1 ,.,x n ) to another sequence of equal length ( z 1 z n ) subscript 1 subscript (z 1 ,.,z n ) with x i z i d subscript subscript superscript x i ,z i d such as a hidden layer in a typical sequence transduction encoder or decoder. motivating our use of self-attention we consider three desiderata. 

 one is the total computational complexity per layer.
another is the amount of computation that can be parallelized, as measured by the minimum number of sequential operations required. 

 the third is the path length between long-range dependencies in the network. learning long-range dependencies is a key challenge in many sequence transduction tasks. one key factor affecting the ability to learn such dependencies is the length of the paths forward and backward signals have to traverse in the network. the shorter these paths between any combination of positions in the input and output sequences, the easier it is to learn long-range dependencies hence we also compare the maximum path length between any two input and output positions in networks composed of the different layer types. 

 
maximum path lengths, per-layer complexity and minimum number of sequential operations for different layer types. n n is the sequence length, d d is the representation dimension, k k is the kernel size of convolutions and r r the size of the neighborhood in restricted self-attention. 

 
 layer type 
 complexity per layer 
 sequential 
 maximum path length 

 

 
 operations 

 
 
 self-attention 
 o ( n 2 d ) superscript 2 o(n 2 d) 
 o ( 1 ) 1 o(1) 
 o ( 1 ) 1 o(1) 

 recurrent 
 o ( n d 2 ) superscript 2 o(n d 2 ) 
 o ( n ) o(n) 
 o ( n ) o(n) 

 convolutional 
 o ( k n d 2 ) superscript 2 o(k n d 2 ) 
 o ( 1 ) 1 o(1) 
 o ( l o g k ( n ) ) subscript o(log k (n)) 

 self-attention (restricted) 
 o ( r n d ) o(r n d) 
 o ( 1 ) 1 o(1) 
 o ( n r ) o(n r) 

 

 as noted in a self-attention layer connects all positions with a constant number of sequentially executed operations, whereas a recurrent layer requires o ( n ) o(n) sequential operations.
in terms of computational complexity, self-attention layers are faster than recurrent layers when the sequence length n n is smaller than the representation dimensionality d d which is most often the case with sentence representations used by state-of-the-art models in machine translations, such as word-piece and byte-pair representations.
to improve computational performance for tasks involving very long sequences, self-attention could be restricted to considering only a neighborhood of size r r in the input sequence centered around the respective output position. this would increase the maximum path length to o ( n r ) o(n r) we plan to investigate this approach further in future work. 

 a single convolutional layer with kernel width k n k n does not connect all pairs of input and output positions. doing so requires a stack of o ( n k ) o(n k) convolutional layers in the case of contiguous kernels, or o ( l o g k ( n ) ) subscript o(log k (n)) in the case of dilated convolutions increasing the length of the longest paths between any two positions in the network.
convolutional layers are generally more expensive than recurrent layers, by a factor of k k separable convolutions however, decrease the complexity considerably, to o ( k n d n d 2 ) superscript 2 o(k n d n d 2 ) even with k n k n however, the complexity of a separable convolution is equal to the combination of a self-attention layer and a point-wise feed-forward layer, the approach we take in our model. 

 as side benefit, self-attention could yield more interpretable models. we inspect attention distributions from our models and present and discuss examples in the appendix. not only do individual attention heads clearly learn to perform different tasks, many appear to exhibit behavior related to the syntactic and semantic structure of the sentences. 

 
 
 5 training 
 
 this section describes the training regime for our models. 

 
 training data and batching 
 
 we trained on the standard wmt english-german dataset consisting of about million sentence pairs. sentences were encoded using byte-pair encoding which has a shared source-target vocabulary of about tokens. for english-french, we used the significantly larger wmt english-french dataset consisting of m sentences and split tokens into a word-piece vocabulary sentence pairs were batched together by approximate sequence length. each training batch contained a set of sentence pairs containing approximately source tokens and target tokens. 

 
 
 hardware and schedule 
 
 we trained our models on one machine with 8 nvidia p gpus. for our base models using the hyperparameters described throughout the paper, each training step took about seconds. we trained the base models for a total of steps or hours. for our big models,(described on the bottom line of ), step time was seconds. the big models were trained for steps ( days). 

 
 
 optimizer 
 
 we used the adam optimizer with 1 subscript 1 1 2 subscript 2 2 and 9 italic- superscript 9 -9 we varied the learning rate over the course of training, according to the formula: 

 

 l r a t e d model min ( s t e p n u m s t e p n u m w a r m u p s t e p s ) superscript subscript model superscript superscript lrate d - ( step num - step num - ) 
 
 (3) 

 
 
 this corresponds to increasing the learning rate linearly for the first w a r m u p s t e p s warmup steps training steps, and decreasing it thereafter proportionally to the inverse square root of the step number. we used w a r m u p s t e p s warmup steps 

 
 
 regularization 
 
 we employ three types of regularization during training: 

 residual dropout 
 
 we apply dropout to the output of each sub-layer, before it is added to the sub-layer input and normalized. in addition, we apply dropout to the sums of the embeddings and the positional encodings in both the encoder and decoder stacks. for the base model, we use a rate of p d r o p subscript p drop 

 
 label smoothing 
 
 during training, we employed label smoothing of value l s subscript italic- ls this hurts perplexity, as the model learns to be more unsure, but improves accuracy and bleu score. 

 

 
 6 results 

 machine translation 
 
 the transformer achieves better bleu scores than previous state-of-the-art models on the english-to-german and english-to-french newstest tests at a fraction of the training cost. 

 
 model 
 bleu 
 
 training cost (flops) 

 en-de 
 en-fr 
 
 en-de 
 en-fr 

 bytenet 

 

 

 deep-att posunk 

 

 superscript 

 gnmt rl 

 
 
 superscript 
 superscript 

 convs2s 

 
 
 superscript 
 superscript 

 moe 

 
 
 superscript 
 superscript 

 
 deep-att posunk ensemble 

 

 superscript 

 gnmt rl ensemble 

 
 
 superscript 
 superscript 

 convs2s ensemble 

 
 
 superscript 
 superscript 

 
 transformer (base model) 

 
 bold- superscript 

 transformer (big) 

 
 superscript 

 

 on the wmt english-to-german translation task, the big transformer model (transformer (big) in ) outperforms the best previously reported models (including ensembles) by more than bleu, establishing a new state-of-the-art bleu score of the configuration of this model is listed in the bottom line of training took days on 8 8 8 p gpus. even our base model surpasses all previously published models and ensembles, at a fraction of the training cost of any of the competitive models. 

 on the wmt english-to-french translation task, our big model achieves a bleu score of outperforming all of the previously published single models, at less than 1 4 1 4 1 4 the training cost of the previous state-of-the-art model. the transformer (big) model trained for english-to-french used dropout rate p d r o p subscript p drop instead of 

 for the base models, we used a single model obtained by averaging the last 5 checkpoints, which were written at -minute intervals. for the big models, we averaged the last checkpoints. we used beam search with a beam size of 4 4 4 and length penalty these hyperparameters were chosen after experimentation on the development set. we set the maximum output length during inference to input length but terminate early when possible 

 summarizes our results and compares our translation quality and training costs to other model architectures from the literature. we estimate the number of floating point operations used to train a model by multiplying the training time, the number of gpus used, and an estimate of the sustained single-precision floating-point capacity of each gpu 2 2 2 we used values of and tflops for k k m and p respectively. 

 
 
 model variations 
 
 variations on the transformer architecture. unlisted values are identical to those of the base model. all metrics are on the english-to-german translation development set, newstest listed perplexities are per-wordpiece, according to our byte-pair encoding, and should not be compared to per-word perplexities. 

 
 
 n n 
 d model subscript model d 
 d ff subscript ff d 
 h h 
 d k subscript d k 
 d v subscript d v 
 p d r o p subscript p drop 
 l s subscript italic- ls 
 train 
 ppl 
 bleu 
 params 

 
 steps 
 (dev) 
 (dev) 
 6 absent superscript 6 6 

 
 
base 
 6 

 8 

 
 
 k 

 

 
 
 (a) 

 
 
 1 

 

 

 

 
 
 4 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 (b) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 (c) 
 
 2 

 

 

 

 
 
 4 

 

 

 

 
 
 8 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 (d) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(e) 
 
 positional embedding instead of sinusoids 

 

 

big 
 6 

 

 
 
 k 

 

 

 to evaluate the importance of different components of the transformer, we varied our base model in different ways, measuring the change in performance on english-to-german translation on the development set, newstest we used beam search as described in the previous section, but no checkpoint averaging. we present these results in 

 in rows (a), we vary the number of attention heads and the attention key and value dimensions, keeping the amount of computation constant, as described in while single-head attention is bleu worse than the best setting, quality also drops off with too many heads. 

 in rows (b), we observe that reducing the attention key size d k subscript d k hurts model quality. this suggests that determining compatibility is not easy and that a more sophisticated compatibility function than dot product may be beneficial. we further observe in rows (c) and (d) that, as expected, bigger models are better, and dropout is very helpful in avoiding over-fitting. in row (e) we replace our sinusoidal positional encoding with learned positional embeddings and observe nearly identical results to the base model. 

 
 
 english constituency parsing 
 
 the transformer generalizes well to english constituency parsing (results are on of wsj) 

 
 parser 
 training 
 wsj f1 

 vinyals kaiser el al. ( ) 
 
 wsj only, discriminative 

 
 petrov ( ) 
 
 wsj only, discriminative 

 
 zhu ( ) 
 
 wsj only, discriminative 

 
 dyer ( ) 
 
 wsj only, discriminative 

 
 transformer (4 layers) 
 wsj only, discriminative 

 
 zhu ( ) 
 
 semi-supervised 

 
 huang harper ( ) 
 
 semi-supervised 

 
 mcclosky ( ) 
 
 semi-supervised 

 
 vinyals kaiser el al. ( ) 
 
 semi-supervised 

 
 transformer (4 layers) 
 semi-supervised 

 
 luong ( ) 
 
 multi-task 

 
 dyer ( ) 
 
 generative 

 

 
 to evaluate if the transformer can generalize to other tasks we performed experiments on english constituency parsing. this task presents specific challenges: the output is subject to strong structural constraints and is significantly longer than the input.
furthermore, rnn sequence-to-sequence models have not been able to attain state-of-the-art results in small-data regimes 

 we trained a 4-layer transformer with d m o d e l subscript d model on the wall street journal (wsj) portion of the penn treebank about k training sentences. we also trained it in a semi-supervised setting, using the larger high-confidence and berkleyparser corpora from with approximately m sentences we used a vocabulary of k tokens for the wsj only setting and a vocabulary of k tokens for the semi-supervised setting. 

 we performed only a small number of experiments to select the dropout, both attention and residual ( ), learning rates and beam size on the development set, all other parameters remained unchanged from the english-to-german base translation model. during inference, we increased the maximum output length to input length we used a beam size of and for both wsj only and the semi-supervised setting. 

 our results in show that despite the lack of task-specific tuning our model performs surprisingly well, yielding better results than all previously reported models with the exception of the recurrent neural network grammar 

 in contrast to rnn sequence-to-sequence models the transformer outperforms the berkeleyparser even when training only on the wsj training set of k sentences. 

 

 7 conclusion 
 
 in this work, we presented the transformer, the first sequence transduction model based entirely on attention, replacing the recurrent layers most commonly used in encoder-decoder architectures with multi-headed self-attention. 

 for translation tasks, the transformer can be trained significantly faster than architectures based on recurrent or convolutional layers. on both wmt english-to-german and wmt english-to-french translation tasks, we achieve a new state of the art. in the former task our best model outperforms even all previously reported ensembles. 

 we are excited about the future of attention-based models and plan to apply them to other tasks. we plan to extend the transformer to problems involving input and output modalities other than text and to investigate local, restricted attention mechanisms to efficiently handle large inputs and outputs such as images, audio and video.
making generation less sequential is another research goals of ours. 

 the code we used to train and evaluate our models is available at https: github.com tensorflow tensor2tensor 

 acknowledgements 
 
 we are grateful to nal kalchbrenner and stephan gouws for
their fruitful comments, corrections and inspiration. 

 
 
 references 

 
 
jimmy lei ba, jamie ryan kiros, and geoffrey e hinton.

 layer normalization.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 

 
dzmitry bahdanau, kyunghyun cho, and yoshua bengio.

 neural machine translation by jointly learning to align and
translate.

 corr abs 

 

 
denny britz, anna goldie, minh-thang luong, and quoc v. le.

 massive exploration of neural machine translation architectures.

 corr abs 

 

 
jianpeng cheng, li dong, and mirella lapata.

 long short-term memory-networks for machine reading.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 

 
kyunghyun cho, bart van merrienboer, caglar gulcehre, fethi bougares, holger
schwenk, and yoshua bengio.

 learning phrase representations using rnn encoder-decoder for
statistical machine translation.

 corr abs 

 

 
francois chollet.

 xception: deep learning with depthwise separable convolutions.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 

 
junyoung chung, aglar g l ehre, kyunghyun cho, and yoshua
bengio.

 empirical evaluation of gated recurrent neural networks on sequence
modeling.

 corr abs 

 

 
chris dyer, adhiguna kuncoro, miguel ballesteros, and noah a. smith.

 recurrent neural network grammars.

 in proc. of naacl 

 

 
jonas gehring, michael auli, david grangier, denis yarats, and yann n. dauphin.

 convolutional sequence to sequence learning.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: v2 

 

 
alex graves.

 generating sequences with recurrent neural networks.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 

 
kaiming he, xiangyu zhang, shaoqing ren, and jian sun.

 deep residual learning for image recognition.

 in proceedings of the ieee conference on computer vision and
pattern recognition pages 

 

 
sepp hochreiter, yoshua bengio, paolo frasconi, and j rgen schmidhuber.

 gradient flow in recurrent nets: the difficulty of learning long-term
dependencies, 

 

 
sepp hochreiter and j rgen schmidhuber.

 long short-term memory.

 neural computation 9(8): 

 

 
zhongqiang huang and mary harper.

 self-training pcfg grammars with latent annotations across
languages.

 in proceedings of the conference on empirical methods in
natural language processing pages acl, august 

 

 
rafal jozefowicz, oriol vinyals, mike schuster, noam shazeer, and yonghui wu.

 exploring the limits of language modeling.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 

 
 ukasz kaiser and samy bengio.

 can active memory replace attention?

 in advances in neural information processing systems, (nips) 

 

 
 
 ukasz kaiser and ilya sutskever.

 neural gpus learn algorithms.

 in international conference on learning representations
(iclr) 

 

 
nal kalchbrenner, lasse espeholt, karen simonyan, aaron van den oord, alex
graves, and koray kavukcuoglu.

 neural machine translation in linear time.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: v2 

 

 
yoon kim, carl denton, luong hoang, and alexander m. rush.

 structured attention networks.

 in international conference on learning representations 

 

 
diederik kingma and jimmy ba.

 adam: a method for stochastic optimization.

 in iclr 

 

 
oleksii kuchaiev and boris ginsburg.

 factorization tricks for lstm networks.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 

 
zhouhan lin, minwei feng, cicero nogueira dos santos, mo yu, bing xiang, bowen
zhou, and yoshua bengio.

 a structured self-attentive sentence embedding.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 

 
minh-thang luong, quoc v. le, ilya sutskever, oriol vinyals, and lukasz kaiser.

 multi-task sequence to sequence learning.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 

 
minh-thang luong, hieu pham, and christopher d manning.

 effective approaches to attention-based neural machine translation.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 

 
mitchell p marcus, mary ann marcinkiewicz, and beatrice santorini.

 building a large annotated corpus of english: the penn treebank.

 computational linguistics (2): 

 

 
david mcclosky, eugene charniak, and mark johnson.

 effective self-training for parsing.

 in proceedings of the human language technology conference of
the naacl, main conference pages acl, june 

 

 
ankur parikh, oscar t ckstr m, dipanjan das, and jakob uszkoreit.

 a decomposable attention model.

 in empirical methods in natural language processing 

 

 
romain paulus, caiming xiong, and richard socher.

 a deep reinforced model for abstractive summarization.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 

 
slav petrov, leon barrett, romain thibaux, and dan klein.

 learning accurate, compact, and interpretable tree annotation.

 in proceedings of the st international conference on
computational linguistics and th annual meeting of the acl pages
 acl, july 

 

 
ofir press and lior wolf.

 using the output embedding to improve language models.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 

 
rico sennrich, barry haddow, and alexandra birch.

 neural machine translation of rare words with subword units.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 

 
noam shazeer, azalia mirhoseini, krzysztof maziarz, andy davis, quoc le,
geoffrey hinton, and jeff dean.

 outrageously large neural networks: the sparsely-gated
mixture-of-experts layer.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 

 
nitish srivastava, geoffrey e hinton, alex krizhevsky, ilya sutskever, and
ruslan salakhutdinov.

 dropout: a simple way to prevent neural networks from overfitting.

 journal of machine learning research (1): 

 

 
sainbayar sukhbaatar, arthur szlam, jason weston, and rob fergus.

 end-to-end memory networks.

 in c. cortes, n. d. lawrence, d. d. lee, m. sugiyama, and r. garnett,
editors, advances in neural information processing systems pages
 curran associates, inc., 

 

 
ilya sutskever, oriol vinyals, and quoc vv le.

 sequence to sequence learning with neural networks.

 in advances in neural information processing systems pages

 

 
 
christian szegedy, vincent vanhoucke, sergey ioffe, jonathon shlens, and
zbigniew wojna.

 rethinking the inception architecture for computer vision.

 corr abs 

 

 
vinyals kaiser, koo, petrov, sutskever, and hinton.

 grammar as a foreign language.

 in advances in neural information processing systems 

 

 
yonghui wu, mike schuster, zhifeng chen, quoc v le, mohammad norouzi, wolfgang
macherey, maxim krikun, yuan cao, qin gao, klaus macherey, 

 google s neural machine translation system: bridging the gap between
human and machine translation.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 

 
jie zhou, ying cao, xuguang wang, peng li, and wei xu.

 deep recurrent models with fast-forward connections for neural
machine translation.

 corr abs 

 

 
muhua zhu, yue zhang, wenliang chen, min zhang, and jingbo zhu.

 fast and accurate shift-reduce constituent parsing.

 in proceedings of the st annual meeting of the acl (volume 1:
long papers) pages acl, august 

 

 
 
 attention visualizations 
 
 an example of the attention mechanism following long-distance dependencies in the encoder self-attention in layer 5 of 6. many of the attention heads attend to a distant dependency of the verb making , completing the phrase making more difficult . attentions here shown only for the word making . different colors represent different heads. best viewed in color. 

 

 
 
 two attention heads, also in layer 5 of 6, apparently involved in anaphora resolution. top: full attentions for head 5. bottom: isolated attentions from just the word its for attention heads 5 and 6. note that the attentions are very sharp for this word. 

 

 
 
 many of the attention heads exhibit behaviour that seems related to the structure of the sentence. we give two such examples above, from two different heads from the encoder self-attention at layer 5 of 6. the heads clearly learned to perform different tasks. 

 

 
 feeling lucky? 
 
 conversion report 
 report an issue 
 view original on arxiv 

 copyright 
 privacy policy 
 generated on sun mar 3 by l a t e xml

bert: pre-training of deep bidirectional transformers for language understanding 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 bert pre-training of deep bidirectional transformers for 
 language understanding 

 jacob devlin ming-wei chang kenton lee kristina toutanova 
 google ai language 
 jacobdevlin,mingweichang,kentonl,kristout google.com 

 
 
 abstract 
 we introduce a new language representation model called bert which stands for b idirectional e ncoder r epresentations from t ransformers. unlike recent language representation models peters ( a ); radford ( ) bert is designed to pre-train deep bidirectional representations from unlabeled text by jointly conditioning on both left and right context in all layers. as a result, the pre-trained bert model can be fine-tuned with just one additional output layer to create state-of-the-art models for a wide range of tasks, such as question answering and language inference, without substantial task-specific architecture modifications. 
 bert is conceptually simple and empirically powerful. it obtains new state-of-the-art results on eleven natural language processing tasks, including pushing the glue score to ( point absolute improvement), multinli accuracy to ( absolute improvement), squad v question answering test f1 to ( point absolute improvement) and squad v test f1 to ( point absolute improvement). 

 
 1 introduction 
 
 language model pre-training has been shown to be effective for improving many natural language processing tasks dai and le ( ); peters ( a ); radford ( ); howard and ruder ( ) these include sentence-level tasks such as natural language inference bowman ( ); williams ( ) and paraphrasing dolan and brockett ( ) which aim to predict the relationships between sentences by analyzing them holistically, as well as token-level tasks such as named entity recognition and question answering, where models are required to produce fine-grained output at the token level tjong kim sang and de meulder ( ); rajpurkar ( ) 

 there are two existing strategies for applying pre-trained language representations to downstream tasks: feature-based and fine-tuning the feature-based approach, such as elmo peters ( a ) uses task-specific architectures that include the pre-trained representations as additional features. the fine-tuning approach, such as the generative pre-trained transformer (openai gpt) radford ( ) introduces minimal task-specific parameters, and is trained on the downstream tasks by simply fine-tuning all pre-trained parameters. the two approaches share the same objective function during pre-training, where they use unidirectional language models to learn general language representations. 

 we argue that current techniques restrict the power of the pre-trained representations, especially for the fine-tuning approaches. the major limitation is that standard language models are unidirectional, and this limits the choice of architectures that can be used during pre-training. for example, in openai gpt, the authors use a left-to-right architecture, where every token can only attend to previous tokens in the self-attention layers of the transformer vaswani ( ) such restrictions are sub-optimal for sentence-level tasks, and could be very harmful when applying fine-tuning based approaches to token-level tasks such as question answering, where it is crucial to incorporate context from both directions. 

 in this paper, we improve the fine-tuning based approaches by proposing bert: b idirectional e ncoder r epresentations from t ransformers. bert alleviates the previously mentioned unidirectionality constraint by using a masked language model (mlm) pre-training objective, inspired by the cloze task taylor ( ) the masked language model randomly masks some of the tokens from the input, and the objective is to predict the original vocabulary id of the masked word based only on its context. unlike left-to-right language model pre-training, the mlm objective enables the representation to fuse the left and the right context, which allows us to pre-train a deep bidirectional transformer. in addition to the masked language model, we also use a next sentence prediction task that jointly pre-trains text-pair representations. the contributions of our paper are as follows: 

 
 
 we demonstrate the importance of bidirectional pre-training for language representations. unlike radford ( ) which uses unidirectional language models for pre-training, bert uses masked language models to enable pre-trained deep bidirectional representations. this is also in contrast to peters ( a ) which uses a shallow concatenation of independently trained left-to-right and right-to-left lms. 

 

 we show that pre-trained representations reduce the need for many heavily-engineered task-specific architectures. bert is the first fine-tuning based representation model that achieves state-of-the-art performance on a large suite of sentence-level and token-level tasks, outperforming many task-specific architectures. 

 

 bert advances the state of the art for eleven nlp tasks.
the code and pre-trained models are available at https: github.com google-research bert 

 

 
 
 2 related work 
 
 there is a long history of pre-training general language representations, and we briefly review the most widely-used approaches in this unsupervised feature-based approaches 
 
 learning widely applicable representations of words has been an active area of research for decades, including non-neural brown ( ); ando and zhang ( ); blitzer ( ) and neural mikolov ( ); pennington ( ) methods. pre-trained word embeddings are an integral part of modern nlp systems, offering significant improvements over embeddings learned from scratch turian ( ) to pre-train word embedding vectors, left-to-right language modeling objectives have been used mnih and hinton ( ) as well as objectives to discriminate correct from incorrect words in left and right context mikolov ( ) 

 these approaches have been generalized to coarser granularities, such as sentence embeddings kiros ( ); logeswaran and lee ( ) or paragraph embeddings le and mikolov ( ) to train sentence representations, prior work has used objectives to rank candidate next sentences jernite ( ); logeswaran and lee ( ) left-to-right generation of next sentence words given a representation of the previous sentence kiros ( ) or denoising auto-encoder derived objectives hill ( ) 

 overall pre-training and fine-tuning procedures for bert. apart from output layers, the same architectures are used in both pre-training and fine-tuning. the same pre-trained model parameters are used to initialize models for different down-stream tasks. during fine-tuning, all parameters are fine-tuned. cls is a special symbol added
in front of every input example, and sep is a special separator token (e.g. separating questions answers). 

 elmo and its predecessor peters ( a ) generalize traditional word embedding research along a different dimension. they extract context-sensitive features from a left-to-right and a right-to-left language model. the contextual representation of each token is the concatenation of the left-to-right and right-to-left representations. when integrating contextual word embeddings with existing task-specific architectures, elmo advances the state of the art for several major nlp benchmarks peters ( a ) including question answering rajpurkar ( ) sentiment analysis socher ( ) and named entity recognition tjong kim sang and de meulder ( ) 
 melamud ( ) proposed learning contextual representations through a task to predict a single word from both left and right context
using lstms. similar to elmo, their model is feature-based and not deeply bidirectional.
 fedus ( ) shows that the cloze task can be used to improve the robustness of text generation models. 

 
 
 unsupervised fine-tuning approaches 
 
 as with the feature-based approaches, the first works in this direction only pre-trained word embedding parameters from unlabeled text collobert and weston ( ) 

 more recently, sentence or document encoders which produce contextual token representations have been pre-trained from unlabeled text and fine-tuned for a supervised downstream task dai and le ( ); howard and ruder ( ); radford ( ) the advantage of these approaches is that few parameters need to be learned from scratch. at least partly due to this advantage, openai gpt radford ( ) achieved previously state-of-the-art results on many sentence-level tasks from the glue benchmark wang ( a ) left-to-right language modeling and auto-encoder objectives have been used for pre-training such models howard and ruder ( ); radford ( ); dai and le ( ) 

 
 
 transfer learning from supervised data 
 
 there has also been work showing effective transfer from supervised tasks with large datasets, such as natural language inference conneau ( ) and machine translation mccann ( ) 
computer vision research has also demonstrated the importance of transfer learning from large pre-trained models, where an effective recipe is to fine-tune models pre-trained with imagenet deng ( ); yosinski ( ) 

 

 3 bert 
 
 we introduce bert and its detailed implementation in this section. there are two steps in our framework: pre-training and fine-tuning 
during pre-training, the model is trained on unlabeled data over different pre-training tasks.
for fine-tuning, the bert model is first initialized with the pre-trained parameters, and all of the parameters are fine-tuned using labeled data from the downstream tasks.
each downstream task has separate fine-tuned models, even though they
are initialized with the same pre-trained parameters. the question-answering example in will serve as a running example for this section. 

 a distinctive feature of bert is its unified architecture across different tasks.
there is minimal difference between the pre-trained architecture and the final downstream architecture. 

 model architecture 
 
 bert s model architecture is a multi-layer bidirectional transformer encoder based on the original implementation described in vaswani ( ) and released in the tensor2tensor library. 1 1 1 https: github.com tensorflow tensor2tensor because the use of transformers has become common and our implementation is almost identical to the original, we will omit an exhaustive background description of the model architecture and refer readers to vaswani ( ) as well as excellent guides such as the annotated transformer. 2 2 2 http: nlp.seas.harvard.edu attention.html 

 in this work, we denote the number of layers (i.e., transformer blocks) as l l the hidden size as h h and the number of self-attention heads as a a 3 3 3 in all cases we set the feed-forward filter size to be 4 h 4 4h i.e., for the h h and for the h h we primarily report results on two model sizes: bert base base (l h a total parameters m) and bert large large (l h a total parameters m). 

 bert base base was chosen to have the same model size as openai gpt for comparison purposes. critically, however, the bert transformer uses bidirectional self-attention, while the gpt transformer uses constrained self-attention where every token can only attend to context to its left. 4 4 4 we note that in the literature the bidirectional transformer is often referred to as a transformer encoder while the left-context-only version is referred to as a transformer decoder since it can be used for text generation. 

 
 input output representations 
 
 to make bert handle a variety of down-stream tasks,
our input representation is able to unambiguously represent both a single sentence and a pair of sentences (e.g., question, answer ) in one token sequence. throughout this work, a sentence can be an arbitrary span of contiguous text, rather than an actual linguistic sentence. a sequence refers to the input token sequence to bert, which may be a single sentence or two sentences packed together. 

 we use wordpiece embeddings wu ( ) with a token vocabulary.
the first token of every sequence is always a special classification token ( cls ). the final hidden state corresponding to this token is used as the aggregate sequence representation for classification tasks.
sentence pairs are packed together into a single sequence. we differentiate the sentences in two ways. first, we separate them with a special token ( sep ). second, we add a learned embedding to every token indicating whether it belongs to sentence a or sentence b 
as shown in we denote
input embedding as e e the final hidden vector of the special cls token as c h superscript c h and the final hidden vector for the i th superscript th i th input token as t i h subscript superscript t i h 

 for a given token, its input representation is constructed by summing the corresponding token, segment, and position embeddings.
a visualization of this construction can be seen in 

 bert input representation. the input embeddings are the sum of the token embeddings, the segmentation embeddings and the position embeddings. 

 
 
 pre-training bert 
 
 unlike peters ( a ) and radford ( ) we do not use traditional left-to-right or right-to-left language models to pre-train bert. instead, we pre-train bert using two unsupervised tasks, described in this section. this step
is presented in the left part of 

 task 1: masked lm 
 
 intuitively, it is reasonable to believe that a deep bidirectional model is strictly more powerful than either a left-to-right model or the shallow concatenation of a left-to-right and a right-to-left model. unfortunately, standard conditional language models can only be trained left-to-right or right-to-left, since bidirectional conditioning would
allow each word to indirectly see itself , and
the model could trivially predict the target word in a multi-layered context. 

 in order to train a deep bidirectional representation, we simply mask some percentage of the input tokens at random, and then predict those masked tokens. we refer to this procedure as a masked lm (mlm), although it is often referred to as a cloze task in the literature taylor ( ) in this case, the final hidden vectors corresponding to the mask tokens are fed into an output softmax over the vocabulary, as in a standard lm. in all of our experiments, we mask of all wordpiece tokens in each sequence at random. in contrast to denoising auto-encoders vincent ( ) we only predict the masked words rather than reconstructing the entire input. 

 although this allows us to obtain a bidirectional pre-trained model, a downside is that we are creating a mismatch between pre-training and fine-tuning, since the mask token does not appear during fine-tuning. to mitigate this, we do not always replace masked words with the actual mask token. the training data generator chooses of the token positions at random for prediction. if the i i -th token is chosen, we replace the i i -th token with (1) the mask token of the time (2) a random token of the time (3) the unchanged i i -th token of the time. then, t i subscript t i will be used to predict the original token with cross entropy loss.
we compare variations of this procedure in appendix c.2 

 
 task 2: next sentence prediction (nsp) 
 
 many important downstream tasks such as question answering (qa) and natural language inference (nli) are based on understanding the relationship between two sentences, which is not directly captured by language modeling. in order to train a model that understands sentence relationships, we pre-train for a binarized next sentence prediction task that can be trivially generated from any monolingual corpus. specifically, when choosing the sentences a and b for each pre-training example, of the time b is the actual next sentence that follows a (labeled
as isnext ), and of the time it is a random sentence from the corpus
(labeled as notnext ).
as we show in c c is used for next sentence prediction (nsp). 5 5 5 the final model achieves - accuracy on nsp. despite its simplicity, we demonstrate in that pre-training towards this task is very beneficial to both qa and nli.
 6 6 6 the vector c c is not a meaningful sentence representation without fine-tuning, since it was trained with nsp. 
the nsp task is closely related to representation-learning objectives used in jernite ( ) and logeswaran and lee ( ) however, in prior work, only sentence embeddings are transferred to down-stream tasks, where bert transfers all parameters to initialize end-task model parameters. 

 pre-training data 
the pre-training procedure largely follows the existing literature on language model pre-training. for the pre-training corpus we use the bookscorpus ( m words) zhu ( ) and english wikipedia (2, m words). for wikipedia we extract only the text passages and ignore lists, tables, and headers. it is critical to use a document-level corpus rather than a shuffled sentence-level corpus such as the billion word benchmark chelba ( ) in order to extract long contiguous sequences. 

 

 fine-tuning bert 
 
 fine-tuning is straightforward since the self-attention mechanism in the transformer allows bert to model many downstream tasks whether they involve single text or text pairs by swapping out the appropriate inputs and outputs.
for applications involving text pairs, a common pattern is to independently encode text pairs before applying bidirectional cross attention, such as parikh ( ); seo ( ) bert instead uses the self-attention mechanism to unify these two stages, as encoding
a concatenated text pair with self-attention effectively includes bidirectional cross attention between two sentences. 

 for each task, we simply plug in the task-specific inputs and outputs into bert and fine-tune all the parameters end-to-end.
at the input, sentence a and sentence b from pre-training are analogous to (1) sentence pairs in paraphrasing, (2) hypothesis-premise pairs in entailment, (3) question-passage pairs in question answering, and (4) a degenerate text- pair in text classification or sequence tagging. at the output, the token representations are fed into an output layer for token-level tasks, such as sequence tagging or question answering, and the cls representation is fed into an output layer for classification, such as entailment or sentiment analysis. 

 compared to pre-training, fine-tuning is relatively inexpensive. all of the results in the paper can be replicated in at most 1 hour on a single cloud tpu, or a few hours on a gpu, starting from the exact same pre-trained model. 7 7 7 for example, the bert squad model can be trained in around minutes on a single cloud tpu to achieve a dev f1 score of . 
we describe the task-specific details in the corresponding subsections of 
more details can be found in appendix a.5 

 

 system 
 mnli-(m mm) 
 qqp 
 qnli 
 sst-2 
 cola 
 sts-b 
 mrpc 
 rte 
 average 

 
 k 
 k 
 k 
 k 
 k 
 k 
 k 
 k 
 - 

 pre-openai sota 

 

 

 

 bilstm elmo attn 

 

 

 

 openai gpt 

 

 

 

 bert base base 

 

 

 

 
 bert large large 

 

 

 

 
 
 glue test results, scored by the evaluation server ( https: gluebenchmark.com leaderboard ). the number below each task denotes the number of training examples. the average column is slightly different than the official glue score, since we exclude the problematic wnli set. 9 9 9 see question in https: gluebenchmark.com faq 
bert and openai gpt are single-model, single task. f1 scores are reported for qqp and mrpc, spearman correlations are reported for sts-b, and accuracy scores are reported for
the other tasks. we exclude entries that use bert as one of their components. 
 9 9 footnotetext: see ( ) in https: gluebenchmark.com faq 

 
 
 4 experiments 
 
 in this section, we present bert fine-tuning results on nlp tasks. 

 
 glue 
 
 the general language understanding evaluation (glue) benchmark wang ( a ) is a collection of diverse natural language understanding tasks.
detailed descriptions of glue datasets are included in appendix b.1 

 to fine-tune on glue, we represent the input sequence (for single sentence or sentence pairs) as described in and use the final hidden vector c h superscript c h corresponding to the first input token ( cls ) as the aggregate representation.
the only new parameters introduced during fine-tuning are classification layer weights w k h superscript w k h where k k is the number of labels. we compute a standard classification loss with c c and w w i.e., log ( softmax ( c w t ) ) softmax superscript ( softmax (cw t )) 

 we use a batch size of and fine-tune for 3 epochs over the data for all glue tasks. for each task, we selected the best fine-tuning learning rate (among 5e-5, 4e-5, 3e-5, and 2e-5) on the dev set. additionally, for bert large large we found that fine-tuning was sometimes unstable on small datasets, so we ran several random restarts and selected the best model on the dev set. with random restarts, we use the same pre-trained checkpoint but perform different fine-tuning data shuffling and classifier layer initialization. the glue data set distribution does not include the test labels, and we only made a single glue evaluation server submission for each of bert base base and bert large large 

 results are presented in both bert base base and bert large large outperform all systems on all tasks by a substantial margin, obtaining and respective average accuracy improvement over the prior state of the art. note that bert base base and openai gpt are nearly identical in terms of model architecture apart from the attention masking. for the largest and most widely reported glue task, mnli, bert obtains a absolute accuracy improvement. on the official glue leaderboard https: gluebenchmark.com leaderboard 
bert large large obtains a score of compared to openai gpt, which obtains as of the date of writing. 

 we find that bert large large significantly outperforms bert base base across all tasks, especially those with very little training data. the effect of model size is explored more thoroughly in 

 
 
 squad v 
 
 the stanford question answering dataset (squad v ) is a collection of k crowdsourced question answer pairs rajpurkar ( ) given a question and a passage from wikipedia containing the answer, the task is to predict the answer text span in the passage. 

 as shown in in the question answering task,
we represent the input question and passage as a single packed sequence, with the question using the a embedding and the passage using the b embedding. we only introduce a start vector s h superscript s h and an end vector e h superscript e h during fine-tuning.
the probability of word i i being the start of the answer span is computed as a dot product between t i subscript t i and s s followed by a softmax over all of the words in the paragraph: p i e s t i j e s t j subscript superscript subscript subscript superscript subscript p i e s t i j e s t j the analogous formula is used for the end of the answer span. the score of a candidate span from position i i to position j j is defined as s t i e t j subscript subscript s t i e t j and the maximum scoring span where j i j i is used as a prediction. the training objective is the sum of the log-likelihoods of the correct start and end positions. we fine-tune for 3 epochs with a learning rate of 5e-5 and a batch size of 

 

 system 
 dev 
 test 

 
 em 
 f1 
 em 
 f1 

 top leaderboard systems (dec th, ) 

 human 
 - 
 - 

 
 
 1 ensemble - nlnet 
 - 
 - 

 
 
 2 ensemble - qanet 
 - 
 - 

 
 
 published 

 bidaf elmo (single) 
 - 
 
 - 

 
 r.m. reader (ensemble) 

 

 
 ours 

 bert base base (single) 

 - 
 - 

 bert large large (single) 

 - 
 - 

 bert large large (ensemble) 

 - 
 - 

 bert large large (sgl. triviaqa) 

 

 
 bert large large (ens. triviaqa) 

 

 
 
 squad results. the bert ensemble is 7x systems which use different pre-training checkpoints and fine-tuning seeds. 

 

 system 
 dev 
 test 

 
 em 
 f1 
 em 
 f1 

 top leaderboard systems (dec th, ) 

 human 

 

 
 1 single - mir-mrc (f-net) 
 - 
 - 

 
 
 2 single - nlnet 
 - 
 - 

 
 
 published 

 unet (ensemble) 
 - 
 - 

 
 
 slqa (single) 
 - 

 

 ours 

 bert large large (single) 

 

 
 
 squad results. we exclude entries that use bert as one of their components. 

 shows top leaderboard entries as well as results from top published systems seo ( ); clark and gardner ( ); peters ( a ); hu ( ) 
the top results from the squad leaderboard do not have up-to-date public system descriptions available, qanet is described in yu ( ) but the system has improved substantially after publication. and are allowed to use any public data when training their systems. we therefore use modest data augmentation in our system by first fine-tuning on triviaqa joshi ( ) befor fine-tuning on squad. 

 our best performing system outperforms the top leaderboard system by f1 in ensembling and f1 as a single system. in fact, our single bert model outperforms the top ensemble system in terms of f1 score. without triviaqa fine-tuning data, we only lose - f1, still outperforming all existing systems by a wide margin. the triviaqa data we used consists of paragraphs from triviaqa-wiki formed of the first tokens in documents, that contain at least one of the provided possible answers. 

 
 
 squad v 
 
 the squad task extends the squad problem definition by allowing for the possibility that no short answer exists in the provided paragraph, making the problem more realistic. 

 we use a simple approach to extend the squad v bert model for this task. we treat questions that do not have an answer as having an answer span with start and end at the cls token. the probability space for the start and end answer span positions is extended to include the position of the cls token. for prediction, we compare the score of the no-answer span: s s c e c subscript s null s c e c to the score of the best non-null span s i j subscript s i,j j i s t i e t j subscript subscript subscript max j i s t i e t j we predict a non-null answer when s i j s subscript subscript s i,j s null where the threshold is selected on the dev set to maximize f1. we did not use triviaqa data for this model. we fine-tuned for 2 epochs with a learning rate of 5e-5 and a batch size of 

 the results compared to prior leaderboard entries and top published work sun ( ); wang ( b ) are shown in excluding systems that use bert as one of their components. we observe a f1 improvement over the previous best system. 

 
 
 swag 
 
 the situations with adversarial generations (swag) dataset contains k sentence-pair completion examples that evaluate grounded commonsense inference zellers ( ) given a sentence, the task is to choose the most plausible continuation among four choices. 

 when fine-tuning on the swag dataset, we construct four input sequences, each containing the concatenation of the given sentence (sentence a ) and a possible continuation (sentence b ). the only task-specific parameters introduced is a vector whose dot product with the cls token representation c c denotes a score for each choice which is normalized with a softmax layer. 

 we fine-tune the model for 3 epochs with a learning rate of 2e-5 and a batch size of results are presented in bert large large outperforms the authors baseline esim elmo system by and openai gpt by . 

 

 system 
 dev 
 test 

 esim glove 

 
 
 esim elmo 

 
 
 openai gpt 
 - 

 
 bert base base 

 - 

 bert large large 

 

 human (expert) 
 
 - 

 
 human (5 annotations) 
 
 - 

 
 
 swag dev and test accuracies.
 human performance is measured with samples, as reported in the swag paper. 

 

 5 ablation studies 
 
 in this section, we perform ablation experiments over a number of facets of bert in order to better understand their relative importance. additional ablation studies can be found in appendix c 

 
 effect of pre-training tasks 
 
 we demonstrate the importance of the deep bidirectionality of bert by evaluating two pre-training objectives using exactly the same pre-training data, fine-tuning scheme, and hyperparameters as bert base base 

 no nsp a bidirectional model which is trained using the masked lm (mlm) but without the next sentence prediction (nsp) task.
 ltr no nsp a left-context-only model which is trained using a standard left-to-right (ltr) lm, rather than an mlm. the left-only constraint was also applied at fine-tuning, because removing it introduced a pre-train fine-tune mismatch that degraded downstream performance. additionally, this model was pre-trained without the nsp task. this is directly comparable to openai gpt, but using our larger training dataset, our input representation, and our fine-tuning scheme. 

 

 
 dev set 

 tasks 
 mnli-m 
 qnli 
 mrpc 
 sst-2 
 squad 

 
 (acc) 
 (acc) 
 (acc) 
 (acc) 
 (f1) 

 
 
 bert base base 

 

 

 no nsp 

 

 
 
 ltr no nsp 

 

 
 
 bilstm 

 

 

 ablation over the pre-training tasks using the bert base base architecture. no nsp is trained without the next sentence prediction task. ltr no nsp is trained as a left-to-right lm without the next sentence prediction, like openai gpt. bilstm adds a randomly initialized bilstm on top of the ltr no nsp model during fine-tuning.

 
 we first examine the impact brought by the nsp task. in we show that removing nsp hurts performance significantly on qnli, mnli, and squad next, we evaluate the impact of training bidirectional representations by comparing no nsp to ltr no nsp . the ltr model performs worse than the mlm model on all tasks, with large drops on mrpc and squad. 

 for squad it is intuitively clear that a ltr model will perform poorly at token predictions, since the token-level hidden states have no right-side context.
in order to make a good faith attempt at strengthening the ltr system, we added a randomly initialized bilstm on top. this does significantly improve results on squad, but the results are still far worse than those of the pre-trained bidirectional models. the bilstm hurts performance on the glue tasks. 

 we recognize that it would also be possible to train separate ltr and rtl models and represent each token as the concatenation of the two models, as elmo does. however: (a) this is twice as expensive as a single bidirectional model; (b) this is non-intuitive for tasks like qa, since the rtl model would not be able to condition the answer on the question; (c) this it is strictly less powerful than a deep bidirectional model, since it can use both left and right context at every layer. 

 
 
 effect of model size 
 
 in this section, we explore the effect of model size on fine-tuning task accuracy. we trained a number of bert models with a differing number of layers, hidden units, and attention heads, while otherwise using the same hyperparameters and training procedure as described previously. 

 results on selected glue tasks are shown in in this table, we report the average dev set accuracy from 5 random restarts of fine-tuning. we can see that larger models lead to a strict accuracy improvement across all four datasets, even for mrpc which only has 3, labeled training examples, and is substantially different from the pre-training tasks. it is also perhaps surprising that we are able to achieve such significant improvements on top of models which are already quite large relative to the existing literature. for example, the largest transformer explored in vaswani ( ) is (l 6, h a ) with m parameters for the encoder, and the largest transformer we have found in the literature is (l h a 2) with m parameters al-rfou ( ) by contrast, bert base base contains m parameters and bert large large contains m parameters. 

 

 hyperparams 
 
 dev set accuracy 

 l 
 h 
 a 
 lm (ppl) 
 mnli-m 
 mrpc 
 sst-2 

 
 
 3 

 

 

 6 
 
 3 

 

 
 6 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 ablation over bert model size. l the number of layers; h hidden size; a number of attention heads. lm (ppl) is the masked lm perplexity of held-out training data. 

 it has long been known that increasing the model size will lead to continual improvements on large-scale tasks such as machine translation and language modeling, which is demonstrated by the lm perplexity of held-out training data shown in however, we believe that this is the first work to demonstrate convincingly that scaling to extreme model sizes also leads to large improvements on very small scale tasks, provided that the model has been sufficiently pre-trained. peters ( b ) presented mixed results on the downstream task impact of increasing the pre-trained bi-lm size from two to four layers and melamud ( ) mentioned in passing that increasing hidden dimension size from to helped, but increasing further to 1, did not bring further improvements. both of these prior works used a feature-based approach we hypothesize that when the model is fine-tuned directly on the downstream tasks and uses only a very small number of randomly initialized additional parameters, the task-specific models can benefit from the larger, more expressive pre-trained representations even when downstream task data is very small. 

 
 
 feature-based approach with bert 
 
 all of the bert results presented so far have used the fine-tuning approach, where a simple classification layer is added to the pre-trained model, and all parameters are jointly fine-tuned on a downstream task. however, the feature-based approach, where fixed features are extracted from the pre-trained model, has certain advantages. first, not all
tasks can be easily represented by a transformer encoder architecture, and therefore require a task-specific model architecture to be added. second, there are major computational benefits to
pre-compute an expensive representation of the training data once and then run many experiments with
cheaper
models on top of this representation.

 
 in this section, we compare the two approaches by applying bert to the conll- named entity recognition (ner) task tjong kim sang and de meulder ( ) in the input to bert, we use a case-preserving wordpiece model, and we include the maximal document context provided by the data. following standard practice, we formulate this as a tagging task but do not use a crf layer in the output. we use the representation of the first sub-token as the input to the token-level classifier over the ner label set. 

 to ablate the fine-tuning approach, we apply the feature-based approach by extracting the activations from one or more layers without fine-tuning any parameters of bert. these contextual embeddings are used as input to a randomly initialized two-layer -dimensional bilstm before the classification layer. 

 results are presented in bert large large performs competitively with state-of-the-art methods. the best performing method concatenates the token representations from the top four hidden layers of the pre-trained transformer, which is only f1 behind fine-tuning the entire model. this demonstrates that bert is effective for both fine-tuning and feature-based approaches. 

 

 system 
 dev f1 
 test f1 

 elmo peters ( a ) 

 

 cvt clark ( ) 
 
 - 

 
 cse akbik ( ) 
 
 - 

 
 fine-tuning approach 

 
 
 bert large large 

 

 bert base base 

 

 feature-based approach (bert base base ) 

 
 
 embeddings 
 
 - 

 second-to-last hidden 
 
 - 

 last hidden 
 
 - 

 weighted sum last four hidden 
 
 - 

 concat last four hidden 
 
 - 

 weighted sum all layers 
 
 - 

 
 conll- named entity recognition results. hyperparameters were selected using the dev set. the reported dev and test scores are averaged over 5 random restarts using those hyperparameters.

 

 
 6 conclusion 
 
 recent empirical improvements due to transfer learning with language models have demonstrated that rich, unsupervised pre-training is an integral part of many language understanding systems. in particular, these results enable even low-resource tasks to benefit from deep unidirectional architectures. our major contribution is further generalizing these findings to deep bidirectional architectures, allowing the same pre-trained model to successfully tackle a broad set of nlp tasks. 

 
 references 

 akbik ( ) 
 
alan akbik, duncan blythe, and roland vollgraf. 

 contextual string embeddings for sequence labeling.

 in proceedings of the th international conference on
computational linguistics pages 

 
 
 al-rfou ( ) 
 
rami al-rfou, dokook choe, noah constant, mandy guo, and llion jones. 

 character-level language modeling with deeper self-attention.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 ando and zhang ( ) 
 
rie kubota ando and tong zhang. 

 a framework for learning predictive structures from multiple tasks
and unlabeled data.

 journal of machine learning research 6(nov): 

 
 
 bentivogli ( ) 
 
luisa bentivogli, bernardo magnini, ido dagan, hoa trang dang, and danilo
giampiccolo. 

 the fifth pascal recognizing textual entailment challenge.

 in tac nist.

 
 
 blitzer ( ) 
 
john blitzer, ryan mcdonald, and fernando pereira. 

 domain adaptation with structural correspondence learning.

 in proceedings of the conference on empirical methods in
natural language processing pages association for computational
linguistics.

 
 
 bowman ( ) 
 
samuel r. bowman, gabor angeli, christopher potts, and christopher d. manning.

 
 a large annotated corpus for learning natural language inference.

 in emnlp association for computational linguistics.

 
 
 brown ( ) 
 
peter f brown, peter v desouza, robert l mercer, vincent j della pietra, and
jenifer c lai. 

 class-based n-gram models of natural language.

 computational linguistics (4): 

 
 
 cer ( ) 
 
daniel cer, mona diab, eneko agirre, inigo lopez-gazpio, and lucia specia.

 
 semeval- task 1:
semantic textual similarity multilingual and crosslingual focused
evaluation 

 in proceedings of the th international workshop on semantic
evaluation (semeval- ) pages 1 vancouver, canada. association for
computational linguistics.

 
 
 chelba ( ) 
 
ciprian chelba, tomas mikolov, mike schuster, qi ge, thorsten brants, phillipp
koehn, and tony robinson. 

 one billion word benchmark for measuring progress in statistical
language modeling.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 chen ( ) 
 
z. chen, h. zhang, x. zhang, and l. zhao. 

 quora
question pairs 

 
 
 clark and gardner ( ) 
 
christopher clark and matt gardner. 

 simple and effective multi-paragraph reading comprehension.

 in acl 

 
 
 clark ( ) 
 
kevin clark, minh-thang luong, christopher d manning, and quoc le. 

 semi-supervised sequence modeling with cross-view training.

 in proceedings of the conference on empirical methods in
natural language processing pages 

 
 
 collobert and weston ( ) 
 
ronan collobert and jason weston. 

 a unified architecture for natural language processing: deep neural
networks with multitask learning.

 in proceedings of the th international conference on machine
learning pages acm.

 
 
 conneau ( ) 
 
alexis conneau, douwe kiela, holger schwenk, lo c barrault, and antoine
bordes. 

 supervised
learning of universal sentence representations from natural language
inference data 

 in proceedings of the conference on empirical methods in
natural language processing pages copenhagen, denmark.
association for computational linguistics.

 
 
 dai and le ( ) 
 
andrew m dai and quoc v le. 

 semi-supervised sequence learning.

 in advances in neural information processing systems pages

 

 deng ( ) 
 
j. deng, w. dong, r. socher, l.-j. li, k. li, and l. fei-fei. 

 imagenet: a large-scale hierarchical image database.

 in cvpr 

 
 
 dolan and brockett ( ) 
 
william b dolan and chris brockett. 

 automatically constructing a corpus of sentential paraphrases.

 in proceedings of the third international workshop on
paraphrasing (iwp ) 

 
 
 fedus ( ) 
 
william fedus, ian goodfellow, and andrew m dai. 

 maskgan: better text generation via filling in the 

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 hendrycks and gimpel ( ) 
 
dan hendrycks and kevin gimpel. 

 bridging nonlinearities and
stochastic regularizers with gaussian error linear units 

 corr abs 

 
 
 hill ( ) 
 
felix hill, kyunghyun cho, and anna korhonen. 

 learning distributed representations of sentences from unlabelled
data.

 in proceedings of the conference of the north american
chapter of the association for computational linguistics: human language
technologies association for computational linguistics.

 
 
 howard and ruder ( ) 
 
jeremy howard and sebastian ruder. 

 universal language model
fine-tuning for text classification 

 in acl association for computational linguistics.

 
 
 hu ( ) 
 
minghao hu, yuxing peng, zhen huang, xipeng qiu, furu wei, and ming zhou. 

 reinforced mnemonic reader for machine reading comprehension.

 in ijcai 

 
 
 jernite ( ) 
 
yacine jernite, samuel r. bowman, and david sontag. 

 discourse-based objectives
for fast unsupervised sentence representation learning 

 corr abs 

 
 
 joshi ( ) 
 
mandar joshi, eunsol choi, daniel s weld, and luke zettlemoyer. 

 triviaqa: a large scale distantly supervised challenge dataset for
reading comprehension.

 in acl 

 
 
 kiros ( ) 
 
ryan kiros, yukun zhu, ruslan r salakhutdinov, richard zemel, raquel urtasun,
antonio torralba, and sanja fidler. 

 skip-thought vectors.

 in advances in neural information processing systems pages

 

 le and mikolov ( ) 
 
quoc le and tomas mikolov. 

 distributed representations of sentences and documents.

 in international conference on machine learning pages

 

 levesque ( ) 
 
hector j levesque, ernest davis, and leora morgenstern. 

 the winograd schema challenge.

 in aaai spring symposium: logical formalizations of commonsense
reasoning volume page 

 
 
 logeswaran and lee ( ) 
 
lajanugen logeswaran and honglak lee. 

 an efficient
framework for learning sentence representations 

 in international conference on learning representations 

 
 
 mccann ( ) 
 
bryan mccann, james bradbury, caiming xiong, and richard socher. 

 learned in translation: contextualized word vectors.

 in nips 

 
 
 melamud ( ) 
 
oren melamud, jacob goldberger, and ido dagan. 

 context2vec: learning generic context embedding with bidirectional
lstm.

 in conll 

 
 
 mikolov ( ) 
 
tomas mikolov, ilya sutskever, kai chen, greg s corrado, and jeff dean. 

 distributed representations of words and phrases and their
compositionality.

 in advances in neural information processing systems pages
 curran associates, inc.

 
 
 mnih and hinton ( ) 
 
andriy mnih and geoffrey e hinton. 

 a scalable hierarchical distributed language model 

 in d. koller, d. schuurmans, y. bengio, and l. bottou, editors,
 advances in neural information processing systems pages
 curran associates, inc.

 
 
 parikh ( ) 
 
ankur p parikh, oscar t ckstr m, dipanjan das, and jakob uszkoreit.

 
 a decomposable attention model for natural language inference.

 in emnlp 

 
 
 pennington ( ) 
 
jeffrey pennington, richard socher, and christopher d. manning. 

 glove: global
vectors for word representation 

 in empirical methods in natural language processing (emnlp) 
pages 

 
 
 peters ( ) 
 
matthew peters, waleed ammar, chandra bhagavatula, and russell power. 

 semi-supervised sequence tagging with bidirectional language models.

 in acl 

 
 
 peters ( a) 
 
matthew peters, mark neumann, mohit iyyer, matt gardner, christopher clark,
kenton lee, and luke zettlemoyer. a.

 deep contextualized word representations.

 in naacl 

 
 
 peters ( b) 
 
matthew peters, mark neumann, luke zettlemoyer, and wen-tau yih.
 b.

 dissecting contextual word embeddings: architecture and
representation.

 in proceedings of the conference on empirical methods in
natural language processing pages 

 
 
 radford ( ) 
 
alec radford, karthik narasimhan, tim salimans, and ilya sutskever. 

 improving language understanding with unsupervised learning.

 technical report, openai.

 
 
 rajpurkar ( ) 
 
pranav rajpurkar, jian zhang, konstantin lopyrev, and percy liang. 

 squad: questions for machine comprehension of text.

 in proceedings of the conference on empirical methods in
natural language processing pages 

 
 
 seo ( ) 
 
minjoon seo, aniruddha kembhavi, ali farhadi, and hannaneh hajishirzi. 

 bidirectional attention flow for machine comprehension.

 in iclr 

 
 
 socher ( ) 
 
richard socher, alex perelygin, jean wu, jason chuang, christopher d manning,
andrew ng, and christopher potts. 

 recursive deep models for semantic compositionality over a sentiment
treebank.

 in proceedings of the conference on empirical methods in
natural language processing pages 

 
 
 sun ( ) 
 
fu sun, linyang li, xipeng qiu, and yang liu. 

 u-net: machine reading comprehension with unanswerable questions.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 taylor ( ) 
 
wilson l taylor. 

 cloze procedure : a new tool for measuring readability.

 journalism bulletin (4): 

 
 
 tjong kim sang and de meulder ( ) 
 
erik f tjong kim sang and fien de meulder. 

 introduction to the conll- shared task: language-independent
named entity recognition.

 in conll 

 
 
 turian ( ) 
 
joseph turian, lev ratinov, and yoshua bengio. 

 word representations: a simple and general method for semi-supervised
learning.

 in proceedings of the th annual meeting of the association
for computational linguistics acl pages 

 
 
 vaswani ( ) 
 
ashish vaswani, noam shazeer, niki parmar, jakob uszkoreit, llion jones,
aidan n gomez, lukasz kaiser, and illia polosukhin. 

 attention is all you need.

 in advances in neural information processing systems pages

 

 vincent ( ) 
 
pascal vincent, hugo larochelle, yoshua bengio, and pierre-antoine manzagol.

 
 extracting and composing robust features with denoising autoencoders.

 in proceedings of the th international conference on machine
learning pages acm.

 
 
 wang ( a) 
 
alex wang, amanpreet singh, julian michael, felix hill, omer levy, and samuel
bowman. a.

 glue: a multi-task benchmark and analysis platform for natural
language understanding.

 in proceedings of the emnlp workshop blackboxnlp:
analyzing and interpreting neural networks for nlp pages 

 
 
 wang ( b) 
 
wei wang, ming yan, and chen wu. b.

 multi-granularity hierarchical attention fusion networks for reading
comprehension and question answering.

 in proceedings of the th annual meeting of the association
for computational linguistics (volume 1: long papers) association for
computational linguistics.

 
 
 warstadt ( ) 
 
alex warstadt, amanpreet singh, and samuel r bowman. 

 neural network acceptability judgments.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 williams ( ) 
 
adina williams, nikita nangia, and samuel r bowman. 

 a broad-coverage challenge corpus for sentence understanding through
inference.

 in naacl 

 
 
 wu ( ) 
 
yonghui wu, mike schuster, zhifeng chen, quoc v le, mohammad norouzi, wolfgang
macherey, maxim krikun, yuan cao, qin gao, klaus macherey, 

 google s neural machine translation system: bridging the gap between
human and machine translation.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 yosinski ( ) 
 
jason yosinski, jeff clune, yoshua bengio, and hod lipson. 

 how transferable are features in deep neural networks?

 in advances in neural information processing systems pages

 

 yu ( ) 
 
adams wei yu, david dohan, minh-thang luong, rui zhao, kai chen, mohammad
norouzi, and quoc v le. 

 qanet: combining local convolution with global self-attention for
reading comprehension.

 in iclr 

 
 
 zellers ( ) 
 
rowan zellers, yonatan bisk, roy schwartz, and yejin choi. 

 swag: a large-scale adversarial dataset for grounded commonsense
inference.

 in proceedings of the conference on empirical methods in
natural language processing (emnlp) 

 
 
 zhu ( ) 
 
yukun zhu, ryan kiros, rich zemel, ruslan salakhutdinov, raquel urtasun,
antonio torralba, and sanja fidler. 

 aligning books and movies: towards story-like visual explanations by
watching movies and reading books.

 in proceedings of the ieee international conference on computer
vision pages 

 

 
 
 appendix for bert: pre-training of deep bidirectional transformers for language understanding 

 
 we organize the appendix into three sections: 

 
 
 additional implementation details for bert are presented in appendix a 

 

 additional details for our experiments are presented in appendix b and 

 

 additional ablation studies are presented in appendix c 

 we present additional ablation studies for bert including: 

 
 
 effect of number of training steps; and 

 

 ablation for different masking procedures. 

 

 

 
 appendix a additional details for bert 
 
 differences in pre-training model architectures. bert uses a bidirectional transformer. openai gpt uses a left-to-right transformer. elmo uses the concatenation of independently trained left-to-right and right-to-left lstms to generate features for downstream tasks. among the three, only bert representations are jointly conditioned on both left and right context in all layers. in addition to the architecture differences, bert and openai gpt are fine-tuning approaches, while elmo is a feature-based approach. 

 
 a.1 illustration of the pre-training tasks 
 
 we provide examples of the pre-training tasks in the following. 

 masked lm and the masking procedure 
 
 assuming the unlabeled sentence is my dog is hairy 
and during the random masking procedure we chose the 4-th token (which corresponding to hairy ), our masking procedure
can be further illustrated by 

 
 
 of the time: replace the word with the mask token, e.g., my dog is hairy my dog is mask 

 

 of the time: replace the word with a random word, e.g., my dog is hairy my dog is apple 

 

 of the time: keep the word unchanged, e.g., my dog is hairy my dog is hairy the purpose of this is to bias the representation towards the actual observed word. 

 

 the advantage of this procedure is that the transformer encoder does not know which words it will be asked to predict or which have been replaced by random words, so it is forced to keep a distributional contextual representation of every input token. additionally, because random replacement only occurs for of all tokens (i.e., of ), this does not seem to harm the model s language understanding capability. in section c.2 
we evaluate the impact this procedure. 

 compared to standard langauge model training, the masked lm only
make predictions on of tokens in each batch, which suggests that more pre-training steps may be required for the model to converge. in section c.1 we demonstrate that mlm does converge marginally slower than a left-to-right model (which predicts every token), but the empirical improvements of the mlm model far outweigh the increased training cost. 

 
 next sentence prediction 
 
 the next sentence prediction task can be illustrated in the following examples. 

 
 input 
 cls the man went to mask store sep absent cls the man went to mask store sep 

 

 he bought a gallon mask milk sep 

 
 
 label 
 isnext absent isnext 

 
 
 input 
 cls the man mask to the store sep absent cls the man mask to the store sep 

 

 penguin mask are flight less birds sep 

 
 
 label 
 notnext absent notnext 

 

 

 a.2 pre-training procedure 
 
 to generate each training input sequence, we sample two spans of text from the corpus, which we refer to as sentences even though they are typically much longer than single sentences (but can be shorter also). the first sentence receives the a embedding and the second receives the b embedding. of the time b is the actual next sentence that follows a and of the time it is a random sentence, which is done for the next sentence prediction task. they are sampled such that the combined length is tokens. the lm masking is applied after wordpiece tokenization with a uniform masking rate of , and no special consideration given to partial word pieces. 

 we train with batch size of sequences ( sequences tokens tokens batch) for 1, steps, which is approximately epochs over the billion word corpus. we use adam with learning rate of 1e-4, 1 subscript 1 1 2 subscript 2 2 l2 weight decay of learning rate warmup over the first steps, and linear decay of the learning rate. we use a dropout probability of on all layers. we use a gelu activation hendrycks and gimpel ( ) rather than the standard relu following openai gpt. the training loss is the sum of the mean masked lm likelihood and the mean next sentence prediction likelihood. 

 training of bert base base was performed on 4 cloud tpus in pod configuration ( tpu chips total). https: cloudplatform.googleblog.com cloud-tpu-now-offers-preemptible-pricing-and-global-availability.html training of bert large large was performed on cloud tpus ( tpu chips total). each pre-training took 4 days to complete. 

 longer sequences are disproportionately expensive because attention is quadratic to the sequence length. to speed up pretraing in our experiments, we pre-train the model with sequence length of for of the steps. then, we train
the rest of the steps of sequence of to learn the positional embeddings. 

 
 
 a.3 fine-tuning procedure 
 
 for fine-tuning, most model hyperparameters are the same as in pre-training, with the exception of the batch size, learning rate, and number of training epochs. the dropout probability was always kept at the optimal hyperparameter values are task-specific, but we found the following range of possible values to work well across all tasks: 

 

 
 batch size 

 

 learning rate (adam) 5e-5, 3e-5, 2e-5 

 

 number of epochs 2, 3, 4 

 

 we also observed that large data sets (e.g., k labeled training examples) were far less sensitive to hyperparameter choice than small data sets. fine-tuning is typically very fast, so it is reasonable to simply run an exhaustive search over the above parameters and choose the model that performs best on the development set. 

 
 
 a.4 comparison of bert, elmo ,and openai gpt 
 
 here we studies the differences in recent popular representation learning
models including elmo, openai gpt and bert.
the comparisons between the model
architectures are shown visually in note that
in addition to the architecture differences, bert and openai gpt are fine-tuning approaches, while elmo is a feature-based approach. 

 the most comparable existing pre-training method to bert is openai gpt, which trains a left-to-right transformer lm on a large text corpus.
in fact, many of the design decisions in bert were intentionally made to make it as close to gpt as possible so that the two methods could be minimally compared.
the core argument of this work is that the bi-directionality and the two pre-training tasks presented in account for the majority of the empirical improvements, but we do note that there are several other differences between how bert and gpt were trained: 

 

 
 gpt is trained on the bookscorpus ( m words); bert is trained on the bookscorpus ( m words) and wikipedia (2, m words). 

 

 gpt uses a sentence separator ( sep ) and classifier token ( cls ) which are only introduced at fine-tuning time; bert learns sep cls and sentence a b embeddings during pre-training. 

 

 gpt was trained for 1m steps with a batch size of words; bert was trained for 1m steps with a batch size of words. 

 

 gpt used the same learning rate of 5e-5 for all fine-tuning experiments; bert chooses a task-specific fine-tuning learning rate which performs the best on the development set. 

 

 to isolate the effect of these differences, we perform ablation experiments in which demonstrate that the majority of the improvements are in fact coming from the two pre-training tasks and the bidirectionality they enable. 

 
 
 a.5 illustrations of fine-tuning on different tasks 
 
 the illustration of fine-tuning bert on different tasks can be seen in
 our task-specific models are formed by incorporating bert with one additional output layer, so a minimal number of parameters need to be learned from scratch. among the tasks, (a) and (b) are sequence-level tasks while (c) and (d) are token-level tasks. in the figure, e e represents the input embedding, t i subscript t i represents the contextual representation of token i i cls is the special symbol for classification output, and sep is the special symbol to separate non-consecutive token sequences. 

 illustrations of fine-tuning bert on different tasks. 

 

 appendix b detailed experimental setup 

 b.1 detailed descriptions for the glue benchmark experiments. 
 
 our glue results in are obtained from https: gluebenchmark.com leaderboard and https: blog.openai.com language-unsupervised 
the glue benchmark includes the following datasets, the descriptions of which were originally summarized in wang ( a ) 

 mnli 
 
 multi-genre natural language inference is a large-scale, crowdsourced entailment classification task williams ( ) given a pair of sentences, the goal is to predict whether the second sentence is an entailment contradiction or neutral with respect to the first one. 

 
 qqp 
 
 quora question pairs is a binary classification task where the goal is to determine if two questions asked on quora are semantically equivalent chen ( ) 

 
 qnli 
 
 question natural language inference is a version of the stanford question answering dataset rajpurkar ( ) which has been converted to a binary classification task wang ( a ) the positive examples are (question, sentence) pairs which do contain the correct answer, and the negative examples are (question, sentence) from the same paragraph which do not contain the answer. 

 
 sst-2 
 
 the stanford sentiment treebank is a binary single-sentence classification task consisting of sentences extracted from movie reviews with human annotations of their sentiment socher ( ) 

 
 cola 
 
 the corpus of linguistic acceptability is a binary single-sentence classification task, where the goal is to predict whether an english sentence is linguistically acceptable or not warstadt ( ) 

 
 sts-b 
 
 the semantic textual similarity benchmark is a collection of sentence pairs drawn from news headlines and other sources cer ( ) they were annotated with a score from 1 to 5 denoting how similar the two sentences are in terms of semantic meaning. 

 
 mrpc 
 
 microsoft research paraphrase corpus consists of sentence pairs automatically extracted from online news sources, with human annotations for whether the sentences in the pair are semantically equivalent dolan and brockett ( ) 

 
 rte 
 
 recognizing textual entailment is a binary entailment task similar to mnli, but with much less training data bentivogli ( ) note that we only report single-task fine-tuning results in this paper. a multitask fine-tuning approach could potentially push
the performance even further. for example, we did observe substantial improvements on rte from multi-task training with mnli. 

 
 wnli 
 
 winograd nli is a small natural language inference dataset levesque ( ) the glue webpage notes that there are issues with the construction of this dataset, https: gluebenchmark.com faq and every trained system that s been submitted to glue has performed worse than the baseline accuracy of predicting the majority class. we therefore exclude this set to be fair to openai gpt. for our glue submission, we always predicted the majority class. 

 

 
 appendix c additional ablation studies 

 c.1 effect of number of training steps 
 
 presents mnli dev accuracy after fine-tuning from a checkpoint that has been pre-trained for k k steps. this allows us to answer the following questions: 
 
 1 1 1 pre-training steps (thousands) mnli dev accuracy bert base base (masked lm) bert base base (left-to-right) 
 ablation over number of training steps. this shows the mnli accuracy after fine-tuning, starting from model parameters that have been pre-trained for k k steps. the x-axis is the value of k k 

 
 
 1. 
 
 question: does bert really need such a large amount of pre-training ( words batch 1, steps) to achieve high fine-tuning accuracy? 
 answer: yes, bert base base achieves almost additional accuracy on mnli when trained on 1m steps compared to k steps. 

 
 2. 
 
 question: does mlm pre-training converge slower than ltr pre-training, since only of words are predicted in each batch rather than every word? 
 answer: the mlm model does converge slightly slower than the ltr model. however, in terms of absolute accuracy the mlm model begins to outperform the ltr model almost immediately. 

 

 
 
 c.2 ablation for different masking procedures 
 
 in we mention that bert uses a mixed strategy for masking the target tokens when pre-training with the masked language
model (mlm) objective. the following is an ablation study to evaluate the effect of different masking strategies. 

 note that the purpose of the masking strategies is to reduce the mismatch
between pre-training and fine-tuning, as the mask symbol never appears during the fine-tuning stage. we report the dev results for both
mnli and ner. for ner, we report both fine-tuning and feature-based approaches,
as we expect the mismatch will be amplified for the feature-based approach as
the model will not have the chance to adjust the representations. 

 

 masking rates 
 dev set results 

 
 
 mask 
 same 
 rnd 
 mnli 
 ner 

 

 fine-tune 
 fine-tune 
 feature-based 

 

 

 

 0 
 0 

 

 
 0 

 

 

 0 

 

 0 

 

 
 
 0 
 0 

 

 
 
 ablation over different masking strategies. 

 the results are presented in in the table,
 mask means that we replace the target token with the mask symbol
for mlm; same means that we keep the target token as is; rnd 
means that we replace the target token with another random token. 

 the numbers in the left part of the table represent the probabilities of the specific strategies used during mlm pre-training (bert uses , , ). the right part of the paper represents the dev set results. for the feature-based
approach, we concatenate the last 4 layers of bert as the features, which
was shown to be the best approach in 

 from the table it can be seen that fine-tuning is surprisingly robust to
different masking strategies. however, as expected, using only the mask strategy
was problematic when applying the feature-based approach to ner. interestingly,
using only the rnd strategy performs much worse than our strategy as well. 

 

 

 feeling lucky? 
 
 conversion report 
 report an issue 
 view original on arxiv 

 copyright 
 privacy policy 
 generated on fri mar 8 by l a t e xml

language models are few-shot learners 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 language models are few-shot learners 

 
tom b. brown
benjamin mann 1 1 footnotemark: 1 
nick ryder 1 1 footnotemark: 1 
melanie subbiah 1 1 footnotemark: 1 
jared kaplan
prafulla dhariwal
arvind neelakantan
pranav shyam
girish sastry
amanda askell
sandhini agarwal
ariel herbert-voss
gretchen krueger
tom henighan
rewon child
aditya ramesh
daniel m. ziegler
jeffrey wu
clemens winter
christopher hesse
mark chen
eric sigler
mateusz litwin
scott gray
benjamin chess
jack clark
christopher berner
sam mccandlish
alec radford
ilya sutskever
dario amodei

 openai 
 equal contributionjohns hopkins university, openai
 
 author contributions listed at end of paper 
 
 ( ) 
 
 abstract 
 recent work has demonstrated substantial gains on many nlp tasks and benchmarks by pre-training on a large corpus of text followed by fine-tuning on a specific task. while typically task-agnostic in architecture, this method still requires task-specific fine-tuning datasets of thousands or tens of thousands of examples. by contrast, humans can generally perform a new language task from only a few examples or from simple instructions something which current nlp systems still largely struggle to do. here we show that scaling up language models greatly improves task-agnostic, few-shot performance, sometimes even reaching competitiveness with prior state-of-the-art fine-tuning approaches. specifically, we train gpt-3, an autoregressive language model with billion parameters, x more than any previous non-sparse language model, and test its performance in the few-shot setting. for all tasks, gpt-3 is applied without any gradient updates or fine-tuning, with tasks and few-shot demonstrations specified purely via text interaction with the model. gpt-3 achieves strong performance on many nlp datasets, including translation, question-answering, and cloze tasks, as well as several tasks that require on-the-fly reasoning or domain adaptation, such as unscrambling words, using a novel word in a sentence, or performing 3-digit arithmetic. at the same time, we also identify some datasets where gpt-3 s few-shot learning still struggles, as well as some datasets where gpt-3 faces methodological issues related to training on large web corpora. finally, we find that gpt-3 can generate samples of news articles which human evaluators have difficulty distinguishing from articles written by humans. we discuss broader societal impacts of this finding and of gpt-3 in general. 

 contents 
 
 1 introduction 
 
 2 approach 
 
 model and architectures 
 training dataset 
 training process 
 evaluation 

 
 3 results 
 
 language modeling, cloze, and completion tasks 
 closed book question answering 
 translation 
 winograd-style tasks 
 common sense reasoning 
 reading comprehension 
 superglue 
 nli 
 synthetic and qualitative tasks 

 4 measuring and preventing memorization of benchmarks 
 5 limitations 
 
 6 broader impacts 
 
 misuse of language models 
 fairness, bias, and representation 
 energy usage 

 7 related work 
 8 conclusion 
 a details of common crawl filtering 
 b details of model training 
 c details of test set contamination studies 
 d total compute used to train language models 
 e human quality assessment of synthetic news articles 
 f additional samples from gpt-3 
 g details of task phrasing and specifications 
 h results on all tasks for all model sizes 

 
 
 1 introduction 
 
 recent years have featured a trend towards pre-trained language representations in nlp systems, applied in increasingly flexible and task-agnostic ways for downstream transfer. first, single-layer representations were learned using word vectors and fed to task-specific architectures, then rnns with multiple layers of representations and contextual state were used to form stronger representations (though still applied to task-specific architectures), and more recently pre-trained recurrent or transformer language models have been directly fine-tuned, entirely removing the need for task-specific architectures 

 language model meta-learning. during unsupervised pre-training, a language model develops a broad set of skills and pattern recognition abilities. it then uses these abilities at inference time to rapidly adapt to or recognize the desired task. we use the term in-context learning to describe the inner loop of this process, which occurs within the forward-pass upon each sequence. the sequences in this diagram are not intended to be representative of the data a model would see during pre-training, but are intended to show that there are sometimes repeated sub-tasks embedded within a single sequence.

 
 this last paradigm has led to substantial progress on many challenging nlp tasks such as reading comprehension, question answering, textual entailment, and many others, and has continued to advance based on new architectures and algorithms however, a major limitation to this approach is that while the architecture is task-agnostic, there is still a need for task-specific datasets and task-specific fine-tuning: to achieve strong performance on a desired task typically requires fine-tuning on a dataset of thousands to hundreds of thousands of examples specific to that task. removing this limitation would be desirable, for several reasons. 

 first, from a practical perspective, the need for a large dataset of labeled examples for every new task limits the applicability of language models. there exists a very wide range of possible useful language tasks, encompassing anything from correcting grammar, to generating examples of an abstract concept, to critiquing a short story. for many of these tasks it is difficult to collect a large supervised training dataset, especially when the process must be repeated for every new task. 

 second, the potential to exploit spurious correlations in training data fundamentally grows with the expressiveness of the model and the narrowness of the training distribution. this can create problems for the pre-training plus fine-tuning paradigm, where models are designed to be large to absorb information during pre-training, but are then fine-tuned on very narrow task distributions. for instance observe that larger models do not necessarily generalize better out-of-distribution. there is evidence that suggests that the generalization achieved under this paradigm can be poor because the model is overly specific to the training distribution and does not generalize well outside it thus, the performance of fine-tuned models on specific benchmarks, even when it is nominally at human-level, may exaggerate actual performance on the underlying task 

 third, humans do not require large supervised datasets to learn most language tasks a brief directive in natural language (e.g. please tell me if this sentence describes something happy or something sad ) or at most a tiny number of demonstrations (e.g. here are two examples of people acting brave; please give a third example of bravery ) is often sufficient to enable a human to perform a new task to at least a reasonable degree of competence. aside from pointing to a conceptual limitation in our current nlp techniques, this adaptability has practical advantages it allows humans to seamlessly mix together or switch between many tasks and skills, for example performing addition during a lengthy dialogue. to be broadly useful, we would someday like our nlp systems to have this same fluidity and generality. 

 one potential route towards addressing these issues is meta-learning 1 1 1 in the context of language models this has sometimes been called zero-shot transfer , but this term is potentially ambiguous: the method is zero-shot in the sense that no gradient updates are performed, but it often involves providing inference-time demonstrations to the model, so is not truly learning from zero examples. to avoid this confusion, we use the term meta-learning to capture the inner-loop outer-loop structure of the general method, and the term in context-learning to refer to the inner loop of meta-learning. we further specialize the description to zero-shot , one-shot , or few-shot depending on how many demonstrations are provided at inference time. these terms are intended to remain agnostic on the question of whether the model learns new tasks from scratch at inference time or simply recognizes patterns seen during training this is an important issue which we discuss later in the paper, but meta-learning is intended to encompass both possibilities, and simply describes the inner-outer loop structure. which in the context of language models means the model develops a broad set of skills and pattern recognition abilities at training time, and then uses those abilities at inference time to rapidly adapt to or recognize the desired task (illustrated in ). recent work attempts to do this via what we call in-context learning , using the text input of a pretrained language model as a form of task specification: the model is conditioned on a natural language instruction and or a few demonstrations of the task and is then expected to complete further instances of the task simply by predicting what comes next. 

 while it has shown some initial promise, this approach still achieves results far inferior to fine-tuning for example achieves only 4 on natural questions, and even its f1 coqa result is now more than points behind the state of the art. meta-learning clearly requires substantial improvement in order to be viable as a practical method of solving language tasks. 

 another recent trend in language modeling may offer a way forward. in recent years the capacity of transformer language models has increased substantially, from million parameters to million parameters to billion parameters to 8 billion parameters billion parameters and finally billion parameters each increase has brought improvements in text synthesis and or downstream nlp tasks, and there is evidence suggesting that log loss, which correlates well with many downstream tasks, follows a smooth trend of improvement with scale since in-context learning involves absorbing many skills and tasks within the parameters of the model, it is plausible that in-context learning abilities might show similarly strong gains with scale. 

 larger models make increasingly efficient use of in-context information. we show in-context learning performance on a simple task requiring the model to remove random symbols from a word, both with and without a natural language task description (see ). the steeper in-context learning curves for large models demonstrate improved ability to learn a task from contextual information. we see qualitatively similar behavior across a wide range of tasks. 

 aggregate performance for all accuracy-denominated benchmarks while zero-shot performance improves steadily with model size, few-shot performance increases more rapidly, demonstrating that larger models are more proficient at in-context learning. see for a more detailed analysis on superglue, a standard nlp benchmark suite. 

 in this paper, we test this hypothesis by training a billion parameter autoregressive language model, which we call gpt-3, and measuring its in-context learning abilities. specifically, we evaluate gpt-3 on over two dozen nlp datasets, as well as several novel tasks designed to test rapid adaptation to tasks unlikely to be directly contained in the training set. for each task, we evaluate gpt-3 under 3 conditions: (a) few-shot learning , or in-context learning where we allow as many demonstrations as will fit into the model s context window (typically to ), (b) one-shot learning , where we allow only one demonstration, and (c) zero-shot learning, where no demonstrations are allowed and only an instruction in natural language is given to the model. gpt-3 could also in principle be evaluated in the traditional fine-tuning setting, but we leave this to future work. 

 illustrates the conditions we study, and shows few-shot learning of a simple task requiring the model to remove extraneous symbols from a word. model performance improves with the addition of a natural language task description, and with the number of examples in the model s context, k k few-shot learning also improves dramatically with model size. though the results in this case are particularly striking, the general trends with both model size and number of examples in-context hold for most tasks we study. we emphasize that these learning curves involve no gradient updates or fine-tuning, just increasing numbers of demonstrations given as conditioning. 

 broadly, on nlp tasks gpt-3 achieves promising results in the zero-shot and one-shot settings, and in the the few-shot setting is sometimes competitive with or even occasionally surpasses state-of-the-art (despite state-of-the-art being held by fine-tuned models). for example, gpt-3 achieves f1 on coqa in the zero-shot setting, f1 on coqa in the one-shot setting, f1 in the few-shot setting. similarly, gpt-3 achieves accuracy on triviaqa in the zero-shot setting, in the one-shot setting, and in the few-shot setting, the last of which is state-of-the-art relative to fine-tuned models operating in the same closed-book setting. 

 gpt-3 also displays one-shot and few-shot proficiency at tasks designed to test rapid adaption or on-the-fly reasoning, which include unscrambling words, performing arithmetic, and using novel words in a sentence after seeing them defined only once. we also show that in the few-shot setting, gpt-3 can generate synthetic news articles which human evaluators have difficulty distinguishing from human-generated articles. 

 at the same time, we also find some tasks on which few-shot performance struggles, even at the scale of gpt-3. this includes natural language inference tasks like the anli dataset, and some reading comprehension datasets like race or quac. by presenting a broad characterization of gpt-3 s strengths and weaknesses, including these limitations, we hope to stimulate study of few-shot learning in language models and draw attention to where progress is most needed. 

 a heuristic sense of the overall results can be seen in which aggregates the various tasks (though it should not be seen as a rigorous or meaningful benchmark in itself). 

 we also undertake a systematic study of data contamination a growing problem when training high capacity models on datasets such as common crawl, which can potentially include content from test datasets simply because such content often exists on the web. in this paper we develop systematic tools to measure data contamination and quantify its distorting effects. although we find that data contamination has a minimal effect on gpt-3 s performance on most datasets, we do identify a few datasets where it could be inflating results, and we either do not report results on these datasets or we note them with an asterisk, depending on the severity. 

 in addition to all the above, we also train a series of smaller models (ranging from million parameters to billion parameters) in order to compare their performance to gpt-3 in the zero, one and few-shot settings. broadly, for most tasks we find relatively smooth scaling with model capacity in all three settings; one notable pattern is that the gap between zero-, one-, and few-shot performance often grows with model capacity, perhaps suggesting that larger models are more proficient meta-learners. 

 finally, given the broad spectrum of capabilities displayed by gpt-3, we discuss concerns about bias, fairness, and broader societal impacts, and attempt a preliminary analysis of gpt-3 s characteristics in this regard. 

 the remainder of this paper is organized as follows. in we describe our approach and methods for training gpt-3 and evaluating it. presents results on the full range of tasks in the zero-, one- and few-shot settings. addresses questions of data contamination (train-test overlap). discusses limitations of gpt-3. discusses broader impacts. reviews related work and concludes. 

 
 
 2 approach 
 
 zero-shot, one-shot and few-shot, contrasted with traditional fine-tuning the panels above show four methods for performing a task with a language model fine-tuning is the traditional method, whereas zero-, one-, and few-shot, which we study in this work, require the model to perform the task with only forward passes at test time. we typically present the model with a few dozen examples in the few shot setting. exact phrasings for all task descriptions, examples and prompts can be found in appendix g 

 
 our basic pre-training approach, including model, data, and training, is similar to the process described in with relatively straightforward scaling up of the model size, dataset size and diversity, and length of training. our use of in-context learning is also similar to but in this work we systematically explore different settings for learning within the context. therefore, we start this section by explicitly defining and contrasting the different settings that we will be evaluating gpt-3 on or could in principle evaluate gpt-3 on. these settings can be seen as lying on a spectrum of how much task-specific data they tend to rely on. specifically, we can identify at least four points on this spectrum (see for an illustration): 

 

 
 fine-tuning (ft) has been the most common approach in recent years, and involves updating the weights of a pre-trained model by training on a supervised dataset specific to the desired task. typically thousands to hundreds of thousands of labeled examples are used. the main advantage of fine-tuning is strong performance on many benchmarks. the main disadvantages are the need for a new large dataset for every task, the potential for poor generalization out-of-distribution and the potential to exploit spurious features of the training data potentially resulting in an unfair comparison with human performance. in this work we do not fine-tune gpt-3 because our focus is on task-agnostic performance, but gpt-3 can be fine-tuned in principle and this is a promising direction for future work. 

 

 few-shot (fs) is the term we will use in this work to refer to the setting where the model is given a few demonstrations of the task at inference time as conditioning but no weight updates are allowed. as shown in for a typical dataset an example has a context and a desired completion (for example an english sentence and the french translation), and few-shot works by giving k k examples of context and completion, and then one final example of context, with the model expected to provide the completion. we typically set k k in the range of to as this is how many examples can fit in the model s context window ( n ctx subscript ctx n ). the main advantages of few-shot are a major reduction in the need for task-specific data and reduced potential to learn an overly narrow distribution from a large but narrow fine-tuning dataset. the main disadvantage is that results from this method have so far been much worse than state-of-the-art fine-tuned models. also, a small amount of task specific data is still required. as indicated by the name, few-shot learning as described here for language models is related to few-shot learning as used in other contexts in ml both involve learning based on a broad distribution of tasks (in this case implicit in the pre-training data) and then rapidly adapting to a new task. 

 

 one-shot (1s) is the same as few-shot except that only one demonstration is allowed, in addition to a natural language description of the task, as shown in the reason to distinguish one-shot from few-shot and zero-shot (below) is that it most closely matches the way in which some tasks are communicated to humans. for example, when asking humans to generate a dataset on a human worker service (for example mechanical turk), it is common to give one demonstration of the task. by contrast it is sometimes difficult to communicate the content or format of a task if no examples are given. 

 

 zero-shot (0s) is the same as one-shot except that no demonstrations are allowed, and the model is only given a natural language instruction describing the task. this method provides maximum convenience, potential for robustness, and avoidance of spurious correlations (unless they occur very broadly across the large corpus of pre-training data), but is also the most challenging setting. in some cases it may even be difficult for humans to understand the format of the task without prior examples, so this setting is in some cases unfairly hard . for example, if someone is asked to make a table of world records for the m dash , this request can be ambiguous, as it may not be clear exactly what format the table should have or what should be included (and even with careful clarification, understanding precisely what is desired can be difficult). nevertheless, for at least some settings zero-shot is closest to how humans perform tasks for example, in the translation example in a human would likely know what to do from just the text instruction. 

 

 shows the four methods using the example of translating english to french. in this paper we focus on zero-shot, one-shot and few-shot, with the aim of comparing them not as competing alternatives, but as different problem settings which offer a varying trade-off between performance on specific benchmarks and sample efficiency. we especially highlight the few-shot results as many of them are only slightly behind state-of-the-art fine-tuned models. ultimately, however, one-shot, or even sometimes zero-shot, seem like the fairest comparisons to human performance, and are important targets for future work. 

 sections - below give details on our models, training data, and training process respectively.
 discusses the details of how we do few-shot, one-shot, and zero-shot evaluations. 

 
 model and architectures 
 
 we use the same model and architecture as gpt-2 including the modified initialization, pre-normalization, and reversible tokenization described therein, with the exception that we use alternating dense and locally banded sparse attention patterns in the layers of the transformer, similar to the sparse transformer to study the dependence of ml performance on model size, we train 8 different sizes of model, ranging over three orders of magnitude from million parameters to billion parameters, with the last being the model we call gpt-3. previous work suggests that with enough training data, scaling of validation loss should be approximately a smooth power law as a function of size; training models of many different sizes allows us to test this hypothesis both for validation loss and for downstream language tasks. 

 

 model name 
 n params subscript params n 
 n layers subscript layers n 
 d model subscript model d 
 n heads subscript heads n 
 d head subscript head d 
 batch size 
 learning rate 

 
 
 gpt-3 small 
 m 

 
 
 m 
 4 superscript 4 -4 

 gpt-3 medium 
 m 

 
 
 m 
 4 superscript 4 -4 

 gpt-3 large 
 m 

 
 
 m 
 4 superscript 4 -4 

 gpt-3 xl 
 b 

 
 
 1m 
 4 superscript 4 -4 

 gpt-3 b 
 b 

 
 
 1m 
 4 superscript 4 -4 

 gpt-3 b 
 b 

 
 
 2m 
 4 superscript 4 -4 

 gpt-3 b 
 b 

 
 
 2m 
 4 superscript 4 -4 

 gpt-3 b or gpt-3 
 b 

 
 
 m 
 4 superscript 4 -4 

 
 sizes, architectures, and learning hyper-parameters (batch size in tokens and learning rate) of the models which we trained. all models were trained for a total of billion tokens. 

 shows the sizes and architectures of our 8 models. here n params subscript params n is the total number of trainable parameters, n layers subscript layers n is the total number of layers, d model subscript model d is the number of units in each bottleneck layer (we always have the feedforward layer four times the size of the bottleneck layer, d ff subscript ff d 4 d model absent 4 subscript model 4 d ), and d head subscript head d is the dimension of each attention head. all models use a context window of n ctx subscript ctx n tokens. we partition the model across gpus along both the depth and width dimension in order to minimize data-transfer between nodes. the precise architectural parameters for each model are chosen based on computational efficiency and load-balancing in the layout of models across gpu s. previous work suggests that validation loss is not strongly sensitive to these parameters within a reasonably broad range. 

 total compute used during training based on the analysis in scaling laws for neural language models we train much larger models on many fewer tokens than is typical. as a consequence, although gpt-3 3b is almost x larger than roberta-large ( m params), both models took roughly petaflop s-days of compute during pre-training. methodology for these calculations can be found in appendix d 

 

 training dataset 
 
 datasets for language models have rapidly expanded, culminating in the common crawl dataset 2 2 2 https: commoncrawl.org the-data constituting nearly a trillion words. this size of dataset is sufficient to train our largest models without ever updating on the same sequence twice. however, we have found that unfiltered or lightly filtered versions of common crawl tend to have lower quality than more curated datasets. therefore, we took 3 steps to improve the average quality of our datasets: (1) we downloaded and filtered a version of commoncrawl based on similarity to a range of high-quality reference corpora, (2) we performed fuzzy deduplication at the document level, within and across datasets, to prevent redundancy and preserve the integrity of our held-out validation set as an accurate measure of overfitting, and (3) we also added known high-quality reference corpora to the training mix to augment commoncrawl and increase its diversity. 

 details of the first two points (processing of common crawl) are described in appendix a for the third, we added several curated high-quality datasets, including an expanded version of the webtext dataset collected by scraping links over a longer period of time, and first described in two internet-based books corpora (books1 and books2) and english-language wikipedia. 

 shows the final mixture of datasets that we used in training. the commoncrawl data was downloaded from shards of monthly commoncrawl covering to constituting tb of compressed plaintext before filtering and gb after filtering, roughly equivalent to billion byte-pair-encoded tokens. note that during training, datasets are not sampled in proportion to their size, but rather datasets we view as higher-quality are sampled more frequently, such that commoncrawl and books2 datasets are sampled less than once during training, but the other datasets are sampled 2-3 times. this essentially accepts a small amount of overfitting in exchange for higher quality training data. 

 

 dataset 

 quantity 
 (tokens) 

 
 
 weight in 
 training mix 

 
 
 epochs elapsed when 
 training for b tokens 

 

 
 common crawl (filtered) 
 billion 

 
 
 webtext2 
 billion 

 
 
 books1 
 billion 
 8 

 
 books2 
 billion 
 8 

 
 wikipedia 
 3 billion 
 3 

 
 
 datasets used to train gpt-3 weight in training mix refers to the fraction of examples during training that are drawn from a given dataset, which we intentionally do not make proportional to the size of the dataset. as a result, when we train for billion tokens, some datasets are seen up to times during training while other datasets are seen less than once. 

 a major methodological concern with language models pretrained on a broad swath of internet data, particularly large models with the capacity to memorize vast amounts of content, is potential contamination of downstream tasks by having their test or development sets inadvertently seen during pre-training. to reduce such contamination, we searched for and attempted to remove any overlaps with the development and test sets of all benchmarks studied in this paper. unfortunately, a bug in the filtering caused us to ignore some overlaps, and due to the cost of training it was not feasible to retrain the model. in we characterize the impact of the remaining overlaps, and in future work we will more aggressively remove data contamination. 

 
 
 training process 
 
 as found in larger models can typically use a larger batch size, but require a smaller learning rate. we measure the gradient noise scale during training and use it to guide our choice of batch size shows the parameter settings we used. to train the larger models without running out of memory, we use a mixture of model parallelism within each matrix multiply and model parallelism across the layers of the network. all models were trained on v gpu s on part of a high-bandwidth cluster provided by microsoft. details of the training process and hyperparameter settings are described in appendix b 

 
 
 evaluation 
 
 for few-shot learning, we evaluate each example in the evaluation set by randomly drawing k k examples from that task s training set as conditioning, delimited by 1 or 2 newlines depending on the task. for lambada and storycloze there is no supervised training set available so we draw conditioning examples from the development set and evaluate on the test set. for winograd (the original, not superglue version) there is only one dataset, so we draw conditioning examples directly from it. 

 k k can be any value from 0 to the maximum amount allowed by the model s context window, which is n ctx subscript ctx n for all models and typically fits to examples. larger values of k k are usually but not always better, so when a separate development and test set are available, we experiment with a few values of k k on the development set and then run the best value on the test set. for some tasks (see appendix g ) we also use a natural language prompt in addition to (or for k 0 0 k 0 instead of) demonstrations. 

 on tasks that involve choosing one correct completion from several options (multiple choice), we provide k k examples of context plus correct completion, followed by one example of context only, and compare the lm likelihood of each completion. for most tasks we compare the per-token likelihood (to normalize for length), however on a small number of datasets (arc, openbookqa, and race) we gain additional benefit as measured on the development set by normalizing by the unconditional probability of each completion, by computing p ( completion context ) p ( completion answer context ) conditional completion context conditional completion answer context p( ) p( ) where answer context answer context is the string "answer: " or "a: " and is used to prompt that the completion should be an answer but is otherwise generic. 

 on tasks that involve binary classification, we give the options more semantically meaningful names (e.g. true or false rather than 0 or 1) and then treat the task like multiple choice; we also sometimes frame the task similar to what is done by (see appendix g ) for details. 

 on tasks with free-form completion, we use beam search with the same parameters as a beam width of 4 and a length penalty of we score the model using f1 similarity score, bleu, or exact match, depending on what is standard for the dataset at hand. 

 final results are reported on the test set when publicly available, for each model size and learning setting (zero-, one-, and few-shot). when the test set is private, our model is often too large to fit on the test server, so we report results on the development set. we do submit to the test server on a small number of datasets (superglue, triviaqa, piqa) where we were able to make submission work, and we submit only the b few-shot results, and report development set results for everything else. 

 

 3 results 
 
 smooth scaling of performance with compute. performance (measured in terms of cross-entropy validation loss) follows a power-law trend with the amount of compute used for training. the power-law behavior observed in continues for an additional two orders of magnitude with only small deviations from the predicted curve. for this figure, we exclude embedding parameters from compute and parameter counts. 

 in we display training curves for the 8 models described in for this graph we also include 6 additional extra-small models with as few as parameters. as observed in language modeling performance follows a power-law when making efficient use of training compute. after extending this trend by two more orders of magnitude, we observe only a slight (if any) departure from the power-law. one might worry that these improvements in cross-entropy loss come only from modeling spurious details of our training corpus. however, we will see in the following sections that improvements in cross-entropy loss lead to consistent performance gains across a broad spectrum of natural language tasks. 

 below, we evaluate the 8 models described in (the billion parameter parameter gpt-3 and 7 smaller models) on a wide range of datasets. we group the datasets into 9 categories representing roughly similar tasks. 

 in we evaluate on traditional language modeling tasks and tasks that are similar to language modeling, such as cloze tasks and sentence paragraph completion tasks. in we evaluate on closed book question answering tasks: tasks which require using the information stored in the model s parameters to answer general knowledge questions. in we evaluate the model s ability to translate between languages (especially one-shot and few-shot). in we evaluate the model s performance on winograd schema-like tasks. in we evaluate on datasets that involve commonsense reasoning or question answering. in we evaluate on reading comprehension tasks, in we evaluate on the superglue benchmark suite, and in we briefly explore nli. finally, in we invent some additional tasks designed especially to probe in-context learning abilities these tasks focus on on-the-fly reasoning, adaptation skills, or open-ended text synthesis. we evaluate all tasks in the few-shot, one-shot, and zero-shot settings. 

 
 language modeling, cloze, and completion tasks 
 
 in this section we test gpt-3 s performance on the traditional task of language modeling, as well as related tasks that involve predicting a single word of interest, completing a sentence or paragraph, or choosing between possible completions of a piece of text. 

 
 .1 language modeling 
 
 we calculate zero-shot perplexity on the penn tree bank (ptb) dataset measured in we omit the 4 wikipedia-related tasks in that work because they are entirely contained in our training data, and we also omit the one-billion word benchmark due to a high fraction of the dataset being contained in our training set. ptb escapes these issues due to predating the modern internet. our largest model sets a new sota on ptb by a substantial margin of points, achieving a perplexity of note that since ptb is a traditional language modeling dataset it does not have a clear separation of examples to define one-shot or few-shot evaluation around, so we measure only zero-shot. 

 

 setting 
 ptb 

 
 
 sota (zero-shot) 
 a 

 
 gpt-3 zero-shot 

 
 
 zero-shot results on ptb language modeling dataset. many other common language modeling datasets are omitted because they are derived from wikipedia or other sources which are included in gpt-3 s training data. a 

 
 
 .2 lambada 

 
 
 setting 

 lambada 
 (acc) 

 
 
 lambada 
 (ppl) 

 
 
 storycloze 
 (acc) 

 
 
 hellaswag 
 (acc) 

 

 
 sota 
 a 
 
 b 
 
 c 
 d 

 gpt-3 zero-shot 

 

 
 gpt-3 one-shot 

 

 
 gpt-3 few-shot 

 

 
 
 performance on cloze and completion tasks. gpt-3 significantly improves sota on lambada while achieving respectable performance on two difficult completion prediction datasets. a b c d 

 on lambada, the few-shot capability of language models results in a strong boost to accuracy. gpt-3 b outperforms the sota b parameter turing-nlg in this setting, and gpt-3 b advances the state of the art by . note zero-shot uses a different format from one-shot and few-shot as described in the text. 

 the lambada dataset tests the modeling of long-range dependencies in text the model is asked to predict the last word of sentences which require reading a paragraph of context. it has recently been suggested that the continued scaling of language models is yielding diminishing returns on this difficult benchmark. reflect on the small improvement achieved by a doubling of model size between two recent state of the art results ( and ) and argue that continuing to expand hardware and data sizes by orders of magnitude is not the path forward . we find that path is still promising and in a zero-shot setting gpt-3 achieves on lambada, a gain of 8 over the previous state of the art. 

 lambada is also a demonstration of the flexibility of few-shot learning as it provides a way to address a problem that classically occurs with this dataset. although the completion in lambada is always the last word in a sentence, a standard language model has no way of knowing this detail. it thus assigns probability not only to the correct ending but also to other valid continuations of the paragraph. this problem has been partially addressed in the past with stop-word filters (which ban continuation words). the few-shot setting instead allows us to frame the task as a cloze-test and allows the language model to infer from examples that a completion of exactly one word is desired. we use the following fill-in-the-blank format: 

 alice was friends with bob. alice went to visit her friend bob 

 george bought some baseball equipment, a ball, a glove, and a 

 when presented with examples formatted this way, gpt-3 achieves accuracy in the few-shot setting, an increase of over from the previous state-of-the-art. we observe that few-shot performance improves strongly with model size. while this setting decreases the performance of the smallest model by almost , for gpt-3 it improves accuracy by . finally, the fill-in-blank method is not effective one-shot, where it always performs worse than the zero-shot setting. perhaps this is because all models still require several examples to recognize the pattern. 

 one note of caution is that an analysis of test set contamination identified that a significant minority of the lambada dataset appears to be present in our training data however analysis performed in suggests negligible impact on performance. 

 
 
 .3 hellaswag 
 
 the hellaswag dataset involves picking the best ending to a story or set of instructions. the examples were adversarially mined to be difficult for language models while remaining easy for humans (who achieve accuracy). gpt-3 achieves accuracy in the one-shot setting and accuracy in the few-shot setting, outperforming the accuracy of a fine-tuned b parameter language model but still a fair amount lower than the overall sota of achieved by the fine-tuned multi-task model alum. 

 
 
 .4 storycloze 
 
 we next evaluate gpt-3 on the storycloze dataset which involves selecting the correct ending sentence for five-sentence long stories. here gpt-3 achieves in the zero-shot setting and in the few-shot setting (with k k ). this is still lower than the fine-tuned sota using a bert based model but improves over previous zero-shot results by roughly . 

 

 closed book question answering 

 
 
 setting 
 naturalqs 
 webqs 
 triviaqa 

 
 
 rag (fine-tuned, open-domain) 

 

 
 t5- b ssm (fine-tuned, closed-book) 

 

 
 t5- b (fine-tuned, closed-book) 

 

 gpt-3 zero-shot 

 

 gpt-3 one-shot 

 

 gpt-3 few-shot 

 

 
 results on three open-domain qa tasks. gpt-3 is shown in the few-, one-, and zero-shot settings, as compared to prior sota results for closed book and open domain settings. triviaqa few-shot result is evaluated on the wiki split test server. 

 on triviaqa gpt3 s performance grows smoothly with model size, suggesting that language models continue to absorb knowledge as their capacity increases. one-shot and few-shot performance make significant gains over zero-shot behavior, matching and exceeding the performance of the sota fine-tuned open-domain model, rag 

 in this section we measure gpt-3 s ability to answer questions about broad factual knowledge. due to the immense amount of possible queries, this task has normally been approached by using an information retrieval system to find relevant text in combination with a model which learns to generate an answer given the question and the retrieved text. since this setting allows a system to search for and condition on text which potentially contains the answer it is denoted open-book . recently demonstrated that a large language model can perform surprisingly well directly answering the questions without conditioning on auxilliary information. they denote this more restrictive evaluation setting as closed-book . their work suggests that even higher-capacity models could perform even better and we test this hypothesis with gpt-3. we evaluate gpt-3 on the 3 datasets in natural questions webquestions and triviaqa using the same splits. note that in addition to all results being in the closed-book setting, our use of few-shot, one-shot, and zero-shot evaluations represent an even stricter setting than previous closed-book qa work: in addition to external content not being allowed, fine-tuning on the q a dataset itself is also not permitted. 

 the results for gpt-3 are shown in on triviaqa, we achieve in the zero-shot setting, in the one-shot setting, and in the few-shot setting. the zero-shot result already outperforms the fine-tuned t5- b by , and also outperforms a version with q a tailored span prediction during pre-training by . the one-shot result improves by and matches the sota for an open-domain qa system which not only fine-tunes but also makes use of a learned retrieval mechanism over a b parameter dense vector index of m documents gpt-3 s few-shot result further improves performance another beyond this. 

 on webquestions (webqs), gpt-3 achieves in the zero-shot setting, in the one-shot setting, and in the few-shot setting. this compares to for fine-tuned t5- b, and for fine-tuned t5- b ssm, which uses a q a-specific pre-training procedure. gpt-3 in the few-shot setting approaches the performance of state-of-the-art fine-tuned models. notably, compared to triviaqa, webqs shows a much larger gain from zero-shot to few-shot (and indeed its zero-shot and one-shot performance are poor), perhaps suggesting that the webqs questions and or the style of their answers are out-of-distribution for gpt-3. nevertheless, gpt-3 appears able to adapt to this distribution, recovering strong performance in the few-shot setting. 

 on natural questions (nqs) gpt-3 achieves in the zero-shot setting, in the one-shot setting, and in the few-shot setting, compared to for fine-tuned t5 b ssm. similar to webqs, the large gain from zero-shot to few-shot may suggest a distribution shift, and may also explain the less competitive performance compared to triviaqa and webqs. in particular, the questions in nqs tend towards very fine-grained knowledge on wikipedia specifically which could be testing the limits of gpt-3 s capacity and broad pretraining distribution. 

 overall, on one of the three datasets gpt-3 s one-shot matches the open-domain fine-tuning sota. on the other two datasets it approaches the performance of the closed-book sota despite not using fine-tuning. on all 3 datasets, we find that performance scales very smoothly with model size ( and appendix h figure h.7 ), possibly reflecting the idea that model capacity translates directly to more knowledge absorbed in the parameters of the model. 

 
 
 translation 
 
 for gpt-2 a filter was used on a multilingual collection of documents to produce an english only dataset due to capacity concerns. even with this filtering gpt-2 showed some evidence of multilingual capability and performed non-trivially when translating between french and english despite only training on megabytes of remaining french text. since we increase the capacity by over two orders of magnitude from gpt-2 to gpt-3, we also expand the scope of the training dataset to include more representation of other languages, though this remains an area for further improvement. as discussed in the majority of our data is derived from raw common crawl with only quality-based filtering. although gpt-3 s training data is still primarily english ( by word count), it also includes 7 of text in other languages. these languages are documented in the supplemental material in order to better understand translation capability, we also expand our analysis to include two additional commonly studied languages, german and romanian. 

 existing unsupervised machine translation approaches often combine pretraining on a pair of monolingual datasets with back-translation to bridge the two languages in a controlled way. by contrast, gpt-3 learns from a blend of training data that mixes many languages together in a natural way, combining them on a word, sentence, and document level. gpt-3 also uses a single training objective which is not customized or designed for any task in particular. however, our one few-shot settings aren t strictly comparable to prior unsupervised work since they make use of a small amount of paired examples (1 or ). this corresponds to up to a page or two of in-context training data. 

 

 setting 
 en fr 
 fr en 
 en de 
 de en 
 en ro 
 ro en 

 sota (supervised) 
 a 
 b 
 
 c 
 d 
 
 e 
 e 

 
 
 xlm 

 

 

 
 mass 

 

 

 
 mbart 
 
 - 
 - 

 

 
 gpt-3 zero-shot 

 

 

 gpt-3 one-shot 

 

 

 gpt-3 few-shot 

 

 

 
 few-shot gpt-3 outperforms previous unsupervised nmt work by 5 bleu when translating into english reflecting its strength as an english lm. we report bleu scores on the wmt fr en, wmt de en, and wmt ro en datasets as measured by multi-bleu.perl with xlm s tokenization in order to compare most closely with prior unsupervised nmt work. sacrebleu f results reported in appendix h underline indicates an unsupervised or few-shot sota, bold indicates supervised sota with relative confidence.
 a 
 b 
 c 
 d 
 e 
 f sacrebleu signature: bleu case.mixed numrefs.1 smooth.exp tok.intl version. 

 few-shot translation performance on 6 language pairs as model capacity increases. there is a consistent trend of improvement across all datasets as the model scales, and as well as tendency for translation into english to be stronger than translation from english. 

 results are shown in zero-shot gpt-3, which only receives on a natural language description of the task, still underperforms recent unsupervised nmt results. however, providing only a single example demonstration for each translation task improves performance by over 7 bleu and nears competitive performance with prior work. gpt-3 in the full few-shot setting further improves another 4 bleu resulting in similar average performance to prior unsupervised nmt work. gpt-3 has a noticeable skew in its performance depending on language direction. for the three input languages studied, gpt-3 significantly outperforms prior unsupervised nmt work when translating into english but underperforms when translating in the other direction. performance on en-ro is a noticeable outlier at over bleu worse than prior unsupervised nmt work. this could be a weakness due to reusing the byte-level bpe tokenizer of gpt-2 which was developed for an almost entirely english training dataset. for both fr-en and de-en, few shot gpt-3 outperforms the best supervised result we could find but due to our unfamiliarity with the literature and the appearance that these are un-competitive benchmarks we do not suspect those results represent true state of the art. for ro-en, few shot gpt-3 performs within bleu of the overall sota which is achieved by a combination of unsupervised pretraining, supervised finetuning on k labeled examples, and backtranslation 

 finally, across all language pairs and across all three settings (zero-, one-, and few-shot), there is a smooth trend of improvement with model capacity. this is shown in in the case of few-shot results, and scaling for all three settings is shown in appendix h 

 
 
 winograd-style tasks 

 
 
 setting 
 winograd 
 winogrande (xl) 

 
 
 fine-tuned sota 
 a 
 b 

 gpt-3 zero-shot 

 
 
 gpt-3 one-shot 

 
 
 gpt-3 few-shot 

 

 results on the wsc version of winograd schemas and the adversarial winogrande dataset. see for details on potential contamination of the winograd test set. a 
 b 

 
 zero-, one-, and few-shot performance on the adversarial winogrande dataset as model capacity scales. scaling is relatively smooth with the gains to few-shot learning increasing with model size, and few-shot gpt-3 b is competitive with a fine-tuned roberta-large. 

 the winograd schemas challenge is a classical task in nlp that involves determining which word a pronoun refers to, when the pronoun is grammatically ambiguous but semantically unambiguous to a human. recently fine-tuned language models have achieved near-human performance on the original winograd dataset, but more difficult versions such as the adversarially-mined winogrande dataset still significantly lag human performance. we test gpt-3 s performance on both winograd and winogrande, as usual in the zero-, one-, and few-shot setting. 

 on winograd we test gpt-3 on the original set of winograd schemas, using the same partial evaluation method described in note that this setting differs slightly from the wsc task in the superglue benchmark, which is presented as binary classification and requires entity extraction to convert to the form described in this section. on winograd gpt-3 achieves , , and in the zero-shot, one-shot, and few-shot settings, showing no clear in-context learning but in all cases achieving strong results just a few points below state-of-the-art and estimated human performance. we note that contamination analysis found some winograd schemas in the training data but this appears to have only a small effect on results (see ). 

 on the more difficult winogrande dataset, we do find gains to in-context learning: gpt-3 achieves in the zero-shot setting, in the one-shot setting, and in the few-shot setting. for comparison a fine-tuned roberta model achieves , state-of-the-art is achieved with a fine-tuned high capacity model (t5), and human performance on the task as reported by is . 

 
 
 common sense reasoning 

 
 
 setting 
 piqa 
 arc (easy) 
 arc (challenge) 
 openbookqa 

 
 
 fine-tuned sota 

 

 
 gpt-3 zero-shot 

 

 
 
 gpt-3 one-shot 

 

 
 
 gpt-3 few-shot 

 

 

 gpt-3 results on three commonsense reasoning tasks, piqa, arc, and openbookqa. gpt-3 few-shot piqa result is evaluated on the test server. see for details on potential contamination issues on the piqa test set. 

 gpt-3 results on piqa in the zero-shot, one-shot, and few-shot settings. the largest model achieves a score on the development set in all three conditions that exceeds the best recorded score on the task. 

 next we consider three datasets which attempt to capture physical or scientific reasoning, as distinct from sentence completion, reading comprehension, or broad knowledge question answering. the first, physicalqa (piqa) asks common sense questions about how the physical world works and is intended as a probe of grounded understanding of the world. gpt-3 achieves accuracy zero-shot, accuracy one-shot, and accuracy few-shot (the last measured on piqa s test server). this compares favorably to the accuracy prior state-of-the-art of a fine-tuned roberta. piqa shows relatively shallow scaling with model size and is still over worse than human performance, but gpt-3 s few-shot and even zero-shot result outperform the current state-of-the-art. our analysis flagged piqa for a potential data contamination issue (despite hidden test labels), and we therefore conservatively mark the result with an asterisk. see for details. 

 arc is a dataset of multiple-choice questions collected from 3rd to 9th grade science exams. on the challenge version of the dataset which has been filtered to questions which simple statistical or information retrieval methods are unable to correctly answer, gpt-3 achieves accuracy in the zero-shot setting, in the one-shot setting, and in the few-shot setting. this is approaching the performance of a fine-tuned roberta baseline ( ) from unifiedqa on the easy version of the dataset (questions which either of the mentioned baseline approaches answered correctly), gpt-3 achieves , , and which slightly exceeds a fine-tuned roberta baseline from however, both of these results are still much worse than the overall sotas achieved by the unifiedqa which exceeds gpt-3 s few-shot results by on the challenge set and on the easy set. 

 on openbookqa gpt-3 improves significantly from zero to few shot settings but is still over points short of the overall sota. gpt-3 s few-shot performance is similar to a fine-tuned bert large baseline on the leaderboard. 

 overall, in-context learning with gpt-3 shows mixed results on commonsense reasoning tasks, with only small and inconsistent gains observed in the one and few-shot learning settings for both piqa and arc, but a significant improvement is observed on openbookqa. gpt-3 sets sota on the new piqa dataset in all evaluation settings. 

 
 
 reading comprehension 

 
 
 setting 
 coqa 
 drop 
 quac 
 squadv2 
 race-h 
 race-m 

 
 
 fine-tuned sota 
 a 
 b 
 c 
 d 
 e 
 e 

 gpt-3 zero-shot 

 

 

 gpt-3 one-shot 

 

 

 gpt-3 few-shot 

 

 

 
 results on reading comprehension tasks. all scores are f1 except results for race which report accuracy. a b c d e 

 gpt-3 results on coqa reading comprehension task. gpt-3 b achieves f1 in the few-shot setting, only a few points behind measured human performance and state-of-the-art fine-tuned models. zero-shot and one-shot performance is a few points behind, with the gains to few-shot being largest for bigger models. 

 next we evaluate gpt-3 on the task of reading comprehension. we use a suite of 5 datasets including abstractive, multiple choice, and span based answer formats in both dialog and single question settings. we observe a wide spread in gpt-3 s performance across these datasets suggestive of varying capability with different answer formats. in general we observe gpt-3 is on par with initial baselines and early results trained using contextual representations on each respective dataset. 

 gpt-3 performs best (within 3 points of the human baseline) on coqa a free-form conversational dataset and performs worst ( f1 below an elmo baseline) on quac a dataset which requires modeling structured dialog acts and answer span selections of teacher-student interactions. on drop a dataset testing discrete reasoning and numeracy in the context of reading comprehension, gpt-3 in a few-shot setting outperforms the fine-tuned bert baseline from the original paper but is still well below both human performance and state-of-the-art approaches which augment neural networks with symbolic systems on squad gpt-3 demonstrates its few-shot learning capabilities, improving by almost f1 (to ) compared to a zero-shot setting. this allows it to slightly outperform the best fine-tuned result in the original paper. on race a multiple choice dataset of middle school and high school english examinations, gpt-3 performs relatively weakly and is only competitive with the earliest work utilizing contextual representations and is still behind sota. 

 

 

 superglue 
 boolq 
 cb 
 cb 
 copa 
 rte 

 
 average 
 accuracy 
 accuracy 
 f1 
 accuracy 
 accuracy 

 
 
 fine-tuned sota 

 

 

 fine-tuned bert-large 

 

 

 gpt-3 few-shot 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 wic 
 wsc 
 multirc 
 multirc 
 record 
 record 

 
 accuracy 
 accuracy 
 accuracy 
 f1a 
 accuracy 
 f1 

 
 
 fine-tuned sota 

 

 

 fine-tuned bert-large 

 

 

 gpt-3 few-shot 

 

 

 

 
performance of gpt-3 on superglue compared to fine-tuned baselines and sota. all results are reported on the test set. gpt-3 few-shot is given a total of examples within the context of each task and performs no gradient updates.

 

performance on superglue increases with model size and number of examples in context. a value of k k means that our model was shown examples per task, for examples total divided across the 8 tasks in superglue. we report gpt-3 values on the dev set, so our numbers are not directly comparable to the dotted reference lines (our test set results are in ). the bert-large reference model was fine-tuned on the superglue training set ( k examples), whereas bert was first fine-tuned on multinli ( k examples) and swag ( k examples) before further fine-tuning on the superglue training set (for a total of k fine-tuning examples). we find the difference in performance between the bert-large and bert to be roughly equivalent to the difference between gpt-3 with one example per context versus eight examples per context.

 

 superglue 
 
 in order to better aggregate results on nlp tasks and compare to popular models such as bert and roberta in a more systematic way, we also evaluate gpt-3 on a standardized collection of datasets, the superglue benchmark gpt-3 s test-set performance on the superglue dataset is shown in in the few-shot setting, we used examples for all tasks, sampled randomly from the training set. for all tasks except wsc and multirc, we sampled a new set of examples to use in the context for each problem. for wsc and multirc, we used the same set of randomly drawn examples from the training set as context for all of the problems we evaluated. 

 we observe a wide range in gpt-3 s performance across tasks. on copa and record gpt-3 achieves near-sota performance in the one-shot and few-shot settings, with copa falling only a couple points short and achieving second place on the leaderboard, where first place is held by a fine-tuned billion parameter model (t5). on wsc, performance is still relatively strong, achieving in the few-shot setting (note that gpt-3 achieves on the original winograd dataset as described in ). on boolq, multirc, and rte, performance is reasonable, roughly matching that of a fine-tuned bert-large. on cb, we see signs of life at in the few-shot setting. 

 wic is a notable weak spot with few-shot performance at (at random chance). we tried a number of different phrasings and formulations for wic (which involves determining if a word is being used with the same meaning in two sentences), none of which was able to achieve strong performance. this hints at a phenomenon that will become clearer in the next section (which discusses the anli benchmark) gpt-3 appears to be weak in the few-shot or one-shot setting at some tasks that involve comparing two sentences or snippets, for example whether a word is used the same way in two sentences (wic), whether one sentence is a paraphrase of another, or whether one sentence implies another. this could also explain the comparatively low scores for rte and cb, which also follow this format. despite these weaknesses, gpt-3 still outperforms a fine-tuned bert-large on four of eight tasks and on two tasks gpt-3 is close to the state-of-the-art held by a fine-tuned billion parameter model. 

 finally, we note that the few-shot superglue score steadily improves with both model size and with number of examples in the context showing increasing benefits from in-context learning ( ). we scale k k up to examples per task, after which point additional examples will not reliably fit into our context. when sweeping over values of k k we find that gpt-3 requires less than eight total examples per task to outperform a fine-tuned bert-large on overall superglue score. 

 performance of gpt-3 on anli round 3. results are on the dev-set, which has only examples and therefore has high variance (we estimate a standard deviation of ). we find that smaller models hover around random chance, while few-shot gpt-3 b closes almost half the gap from random chance to sota. results for anli rounds 1 and 2 are shown in the appendix. 

 
 
 nli 
 
 natural language inference (nli) concerns the ability to understand the relationship between two sentences. in practice, this task is usually structured as a two or three class classification problem where the model classifies whether the second sentence logically follows from the first, contradicts the first sentence, or is possibly true (neutral). superglue includes an nli dataset, rte, which evaluates the binary version of the task. on rte, only the largest version of gpt-3 performs convincingly better than random ( ) in any evaluation setting, but in a few-shot setting gpt-3 performs similarly to a single-task fine-tuned bert large. we also evaluate on the recently introduced adversarial natural language inference (anli) dataset anli is a difficult dataset employing a series of adversarially mined natural language inference questions in three rounds (r1, r2, and r3). similar to rte, all of our models smaller than gpt-3 perform at almost exactly random chance on anli, even in the few-shot setting ( similar-to absent percent ), whereas gpt-3 itself shows signs of life on round 3. results for anli r3 are highlighted in and full results for all rounds can be found in appendix h these results on both rte and anli suggest that nli is still a very difficult task for language models and they are only just beginning to show signs of progress. 

 
 
 synthetic and qualitative tasks 
 
 one way to probe gpt-3 s range of abilities in the few-shot (or zero- and one-shot) setting is to give it tasks which require it to perform simple on-the-fly computational reasoning, recognize a novel pattern that is unlikely to have occurred in training, or adapt quickly to an unusual task. we devise several tasks to test this class of abilities. first, we test gpt-3 s ability to perform arithmetic. second, we create several tasks that involve rearranging or unscrambling the letters in a word, tasks which are unlikely to have been exactly seen during training. third, we test gpt-3 s ability to solve sat-style analogy problems few-shot. finally, we test gpt-3 on several qualitative tasks, including using new words in a sentence, correcting english grammar, and news article generation. we will release the synthetic datasets with the hope of stimulating further study of test-time behavior of language models. 

 
 .1 arithmetic 
 
 to test gpt-3 s ability to perform simple arithmetic operations without task-specific training, we developed a small battery of tests that involve asking gpt-3 a simple arithmetic problem in natural language: 

 

 
 2 digit addition (2d ) the model is asked to add two integers sampled uniformly from 0 ) 0 0, ) phrased in the form of a question, e.g. q: what is plus ? a: . 

 

 2 digit subtraction (2d-) the model is asked to subtract two integers sampled uniformly from 0 ) 0 0, ) the answer may be negative. example: q: what is minus ? a: - . 

 

 3 digit addition (3d ) same as 2 digit addition, except numbers are uniformly sampled from 0 ) 0 0, ) 

 

 3 digit subtraction (3d-) same as 2 digit subtraction, except numbers are uniformly sampled from 0 ) 0 0, ) 

 

 4 digit addition (4d ) same as 3 digit addition, except uniformly sampled from 0 ) 0 0, ) 

 

 4 digit subtraction (4d-) same as 3 digit subtraction, except uniformly sampled from 0 ) 0 0, ) 

 

 5 digit addition (5d ) same as 3 digit addition, except uniformly sampled from 0 ) 0 0, ) 

 

 5 digit subtraction (5d-) same as 3 digit subtraction, except uniformly sampled from 0 ) 0 0, ) 

 

 2 digit multiplication (2dx) the model is asked to multiply two integers sampled uniformly from 0 ) 0 0, ) e.g. q: what is times ? a: . 

 

 one-digit composite (1dc) the model is asked to perform a composite operation on three 1 digit numbers, with parentheses around the last two. for example, q: what is 6 (4 8)? a: . the three 1 digit numbers are selected uniformly on 0 ) 0 0, ) and the operations are selected uniformly from ,-, 

 

 in all tasks the model must generate the correct answer exactly. for each task we generate a dataset of 2, random instances of the task and evaluate all models on those instances. 

 first we evaluate gpt-3 in the few-shot setting, for which results are shown in on addition and subtraction, gpt-3 displays strong proficiency when the number of digits is small, achieving accuracy on 2 digit addition, at 2 digit subtraction, at 3 digit addition, and at 3-digit subtraction. performance decreases as the number of digits increases, but gpt-3 still achieves - accuracy on four digit operations and 9- accuracy on five digit operations, suggesting at least some capacity to generalize to larger numbers of digits. gpt-3 also achieves accuracy at 2 digit multiplication, an especially computationally intensive operation. finally, gpt-3 achieves accuracy at single digit combined operations (for example, 9 (7 5)), suggesting that it has some robustness beyond just single operations. 

 results on all arithmetic tasks in the few-shot settings for models of different sizes. there is a significant jump from the second largest model (gpt-3 b) to the largest model (gpt-3 ), with the latter being able to reliably accurate 2 digit arithmetic, usually accurate 3 digit arithmetic, and correct answers a significant fraction of the time on 4-5 digit arithmetic, 2 digit multiplication, and compound operations. results for one-shot and zero-shot are shown in the appendix. 

 

 setting 
 2d 
 2d- 
 3d 
 3d- 
 4d 
 4d- 
 5d 
 5d- 
 2dx 
 1dc 

 
 
 gpt-3 zero-shot 

 

 

 

 
 gpt-3 one-shot 

 

 

 

 
 gpt-3 few-shot 

 

 

 

 
 
 results on basic arithmetic tasks for gpt-3 b. 2,3,4,5 d ,- is 2, 3, 4, and 5 digit addition or subtraction, 2dx is 2 digit multiplication. 1dc is 1 digit composite operations. results become progressively stronger moving from the zero-shot to one-shot to few-shot setting, but even the zero-shot shows significant arithmetic abilities. 

 as makes clear, small models do poorly on all of these tasks even the billion parameter model (the second largest after the billion full gpt-3) can solve 2 digit addition and subtraction only half the time, and all other operations less than of the time. 

 one-shot and zero-shot performance are somewhat degraded relative to few-shot performance, suggesting that adaptation to the task (or at the very least recognition of the task) is important to performing these computations correctly. nevertheless, one-shot performance is still quite strong, and even zero-shot performance of the full gpt-3 significantly outperforms few-shot learning for all smaller models. all three settings for the full gpt-3 are shown in and model capacity scaling for all three settings is shown in appendix h 

 to spot-check whether the model is simply memorizing specific arithmetic problems, we took the 3-digit arithmetic problems in our test set and searched for them in our training data in both the forms " num1 num2 " and " num1 plus num2 " out of 2, addition problems we found only matches ( ) and out of 2, subtraction problems we found only 2 matches ( ), suggesting that only a trivial fraction of the correct answers could have been memorized. in addition, inspection of incorrect answers reveals that the model often makes mistakes such as not carrying a 1 , suggesting it is actually attempting to perform the relevant computation rather than memorizing a table. 

 overall, gpt-3 displays reasonable proficiency at moderately complex arithmetic in few-shot, one-shot, and even zero-shot settings. 

 
 
 .2 word scrambling and manipulation tasks 
 
 to test gpt-3 s ability to learn novel symbolic manipulations from a few examples, we designed a small battery of 5 character manipulation tasks. each task involves giving the model a word distorted by some combination of scrambling, addition, or deletion of characters, and asking it to recover the original word. the 5 tasks are: 

 

 setting 
 cl 
 a1 
 a2 
 ri 
 rw 

 
 
 gpt-3 zero-shot 

 

 
 
 gpt-3 one-shot 

 

 
 
 gpt-3 few-shot 

 

 

 gpt-3 b performance on various word unscrambling and word
manipulation tasks, in zero-, one-, and few-shot settings. cl is cycle letters in word , a1 is anagrams of but the first and last letters,
a2 is anagrams of all but the first and last two letters, ri is random insertion
in word , rw is reversed words . 

 few-shot performance on the five word scrambling tasks for different sizes of model. there is generally smooth improvement with model size although the random insertion task shows an upward slope of improvement with the b model solving the task the majority of the time. scaling of one-shot and zero-shot performance is shown in the appendix. all tasks are done with k k 

 

 
 cycle letters in word (cl) the model is given a word with its letters cycled, then the symbol, and is expected to generate the original word. for example, it might be given lyinevitab and should output inevitably . 

 

 anagrams of all but first and last characters (a1) the model is given a word where every letter except the first and last have been scrambled randomly, and must output the original word. example: criroptuon corruption. 

 

 anagrams of all but first and last 2 characters (a2) the model is given a word where every letter except the first 2 and last 2 have been scrambled randomly, and must recover the original word. example: opoepnnt opponent. 

 

 random insertion in word (ri) a random punctuation or space character is inserted between each letter of a word, and the model must output the original word. example: s.u!c c!e.s s i o n succession. 

 

 reversed words (rw) the model is given a word spelled backwards, and must output the original word. example: stcejbo objects. 

 

 for each task we generate examples, which we chose to be the top most frequent words as measured by of length more than 4 characters and less than characters. the few-shot results are shown in task performance tends to grow smoothly with model size, with the full gpt-3 model achieving on removing random insertions, on cycling letters, on the easier anagram task, and on the more difficult anagram task (where only the first and last letters are held fixed). none of the models can reverse the letters in a word. 

 in the one-shot setting, performance is significantly weaker (dropping by half or more), and in the zero-shot setting the model can rarely perform any of the tasks ( ). this suggests that the model really does appear to learn these tasks at test time, as the model cannot perform them zero-shot and their artificial nature makes them unlikely to appear in the pre-training data (although we cannot confirm this with certainty). 

 we can further quantify performance by plotting in-context learning curves , which show task performance as a function of the number of in-context examples. we show in-context learning curves for the symbol insertion task in we can see that larger models are able to make increasingly effective use of in-context information, including both task examples and natural language task descriptions. 

 finally, it is worth adding that solving these tasks requires character-level manipulations, whereas our bpe encoding operates on significant fractions of a word (on average similar-to absent words per token), so from the lm s perspective succeeding at these tasks involves not just manipulating bpe tokens but understanding and pulling apart their substructure. also, cl, a1, and a2 are not bijective (that is, the unscrambled word is not a deterministic function of the scrambled word), requiring the model to perform some search to find the correct unscrambling. thus, the skills involved appear to require non-trivial pattern-matching and computation. 

 
 
 .3 sat analogies 
 
 to test gpt-3 on another task that is somewhat unusual relative to the typical distribution of text, we collected a set of sat analogy problems analogies are a style of multiple choice question that constituted a section of the sat college entrance exam before a typical example is audacious is to boldness as (a) sanctimonious is to hypocrisy, (b) anonymous is to identity, (c) remorseful is to misdeed, (d) deleterious is to result, (e) impressionable is to temptation . the student is expected to choose which of the five word pairs has the same relationship as the original word pair; in this example the answer is sanctimonious is to hypocrisy . on this task gpt-3 achieves in the few-shot setting, in the one-shot setting, and in the zero-shot setting, whereas the average score among college applicants was (random guessing yields ). as shown in the results improve with scale, with the the full billion model improving by over compared to the billion parameter model. 

 zero-, one-,and few-shot performance on sat analogy tasks, for different sizes of model. the largest model achieves accuracy in the few-shot setting, and also demonstrates significant gains to in-context learning which are not present in smaller models. 

 
 
 .4 news article generation 
 
 previous work on generative language models qualitatively tested their ability to generate synthetic news articles by conditional sampling from the model given a human-written prompt consisting of a plausible first sentence for a news story relative to the dataset used to train gpt-3 is much less weighted towards news articles, so trying to generate news articles via raw unconditional samples is less effective for example gpt-3 often interprets the proposed first sentence of a news article as a tweet and then posts synthetic responses or follow-up tweets. to solve this problem we employed gpt-3 s few-shot learning abilities by providing three previous news articles in the model s context to condition it. with the title and subtitle of a proposed next article, the model is able to reliably generate short articles in the news genre. 

 to gauge the quality of news article generation from gpt-3 (which we believe is likely to be correlated with conditional sample generation quality in general), we decided to measure human ability to distinguish gpt-3-generated articles from real ones. similar work has been carried out by kreps and zellers generative language models are trained to match the distribution of content generated by humans, so the (in)ability of humans to distinguish the two is a potentially important measure of quality. 3 3 3 this task is also relevant to the potential misuse of language models discussed in 

 in order to see how well humans can detect model generated text, we arbitrarily selected article titles and subtitles from the website newser.com (mean length: words). we then generated completions of these titles and subtitles from four language models ranging in size from m to b (gpt-3) parameters (mean length: words). for each model, we presented around us-based participants with a quiz consisting of these real titles and subtitles followed by either the human written article or the article generated by the model 4 4 4 we wanted to identify how good an average person on the internet is at detecting language model outputs, so we focused on participants drawn from the general us population. see appendix e for details. participants were asked to select whether the article was very likely written by a human , more likely written by a human , i don t know , more likely written by a machine , or very likely written by a machine . 

 the articles we selected were not in the models training data and the model outputs were formatted and selected programmatically to prevent human cherry-picking. all models used the same context to condition outputs on and were pre-trained with the same context size and the same article titles and subtitles were used as prompts for each model. however, we also ran an experiment to control for participant effort and attention that followed the same format but involved intentionally bad model generated articles. this was done by generating articles from a control model : a m parameter model with no context and increased output randomness. 

 mean human accuracy (the ratio of correct assignments to non-neutral assignments per participant) at detecting that the intentionally bad articles were model generated was similar-to absent percent where is chance level performance. by contrast, mean human accuracy at detecting articles that were produced by the b parameter model was barely above chance at similar-to absent percent (see ). 5 5 5 we use a two-sample student s t-test to test for significant difference between the means of the participant accuracies of each model and the control model and report the normalized difference in the means (as the t-statistic) and the p-value. human abilities to detect model generated text appear to decrease as model size increases: there appears to be a trend towards chance accuracy with model size, and human detection of gpt-3 is close to chance. 6 6 6 if a model consistently produces texts that are more impressive than human articles, it is possible that human performance on this task would drop below . indeed, many individual participants scored below on this task. this is true despite the fact that participants spend more time on each output as model size increases (see appendix e ). 

 

 
 mean accuracy 

 confidence 
 interval (low, hi) 

 
 
 t t compared to 
 control ( p p -value) 

 
 
 i don t know 
 assignments 

 

 
 control (deliberately bad model) 

 - 

 
 gpt-3 small 

 (2 e e -4) 

 
 gpt-3 medium 

 (7 e e - ) 

 
 gpt-3 large 

 (3 e e - ) 

 
 gpt-3 xl 

 (1 e e - ) 

 
 gpt-3 b 

 (5 e e - ) 

 
 gpt-3 b 

 (3 e e - ) 

 
 gpt-3 b 

 (1 e e - ) 

 
 gpt-3 b 

 (1 e e - ) 

 
 
 human accuracy in identifying whether short ( similar-to word) news articles are model generated we find that human accuracy (measured by the ratio of correct assignments to non-neutral assignments) ranges from on the control model to on gpt-3 b. this table compares mean accuracy between five different models, and shows the results of a two-sample t-test for the difference in mean accuracy between each model and the control model (an unconditional gpt-3 small model with increased output randomness). 

 people s ability to identify whether news articles are model-generated (measured by the ratio of correct assignments to non-neutral assignments) decreases as model size increases. accuracy on the outputs on the deliberately-bad control model (an unconditioned gpt-3 small model with higher output randomness) is indicated with the dashed line at the top, and the random chance ( ) is indicated with the dashed line at the bottom. line of best fit is a power law with confidence intervals. 

 examples of synthetic articles from gpt-3 are given in figures and 7 7 7 additional non-news samples can be found in appendix f much of the text is as indicated by the evaluations difficult for humans to distinguish from authentic human content. factual inaccuracies can be an indicator that an article is model generated since, unlike human authors, the models have no access to the specific facts that the article titles refer to or when the article was written. other indicators include repetition, non sequiturs, and unusual phrasings, though these are often subtle enough that they are not noticed. 

 
 
 title: united methodists agree to historic split 
 subtitle: those who oppose gay marriage will form their own denomination 
 article: 
 after two days of intense debate, the united methodist church has agreed to a historic split - one that is expected to end in the creation of a new denomination, one that will be theologically and socially conservative, according to the washington post. the majority of delegates attending the church s annual general conference in may voted to strengthen a ban on the ordination of lgbtq clergy and to write new rules that will discipline clergy who officiate at same-sex weddings. but those who opposed these measures have a new plan: they say they will form a separate denomination by calling their church the christian methodist denomination. 
 the post notes that the denomination, which claims million members, was in the early th century the largest protestant denomination in the u.s., but that it has been shrinking in recent decades. the new split will be the second in the church s history. the first occurred in when roughly percent of the denomination left to form the evangelical united brethren church. the post notes that the proposed split comes at a critical time for the church, which has been losing members for years, which has been pushed toward the brink of a schism over the role of lgbtq people in the church. gay marriage is not the only issue that has divided the church. in the denomination was split over ordination of transgender clergy, with the north pacific regional conference voting to ban them from serving as clergy, and the south pacific regional conference voting to allow them.

 the gpt-3 generated news article that humans had the greatest difficulty distinguishing from a human written article (accuracy: ). 

 
 
 title: star s tux promise draws megyn kelly s sarcasm 
 subtitle: joaquin phoenix pledged to not change for each awards event 
 article: 
 a year ago, joaquin phoenix made headlines when he appeared on the red carpet at the golden globes wearing a tuxedo with a paper bag over his head that read, i am a shape-shifter. i can t change the world. i can only change myself. it was a promise to not change to fit into the hollywood mold: i think that s a really special thing, to not change yourself. i think it s a really special thing to say, this is what s inside of me, i m proud of it, and i m not going to be ashamed because of the way that someone else thinks i should be. now, it s the oscars, and phoenix is at it again. but this time, his publicist is saying he ll be wearing a tux no matter what. 
 megyn kelly was not impressed, and she let him have it on the tonight show. you know, i feel like, i feel like you could have worn the tux, she says. but you re saying you re a shape-shifter. i don t know if you can change your tux, but you can change your mind. you can change your mind. you can change your mind. phoenix says he did, but it didn t stick. i was like, okay, i m going to wear a tuxedo to this thing. and then i thought, i don t want to wear a tuxedo to this thing. kelly goes on to encourage him to change his mind again, but phoenix says it s too late: i m committed to wearing this. 

 the gpt-3 generated news article that humans found the easiest to distinguish from a human written article (accuracy: ). 

 related work on language model detection by ippolito indicates that automatic discriminators like grover and gltr may have greater success at detecting model generated text than human evaluators. automatic detection of these models may be a promising area of future research. 

 ippolito also note that human accuracy at detecting model generated text increases as humans observe more tokens. to do a preliminary investigation of how good humans are at detecting longer news articles generated by gpt-3 b, we selected world news articles from reuters with an average length of words and generated completions of these articles from gpt-3 with an average length of words ( words longer than our initial experiments). following the methodology above, we ran two experiments, each on around us-based participants, to compare human abilities to detect the articles generated by gpt-3 and a control model. 

 we found that mean human accuracy at detecting the intentionally bad longer articles from the control model was similar-to absent percent while mean human accuracy at detecting the longer articles that were produced by gpt-3 b was still barely above chance at similar-to absent percent (see ). this indicates that, for news articles that are around words long, gpt-3 continues to produce articles that humans find difficult to distinguish from human written news articles. 

 

 
 mean accuracy 

 confidence 
 interval (low, hi) 

 
 
 t t compared to 
 control ( p p -value) 

 
 
 i don t know 
 assignments 

 

 
 control 

 - 

 
 gpt-3 b 

 ( e e - ) 

 
 
 people s ability to identify whether similar-to absent word articles are model generated (as measured by the ratio of correct assignments to non-neutral assignments) was on the control model and on gpt-3 b. this table shows the results of a two-sample t-test for the difference in mean accuracy between gpt-3 b and the control model (an unconditional gpt-3 small model with increased output randomness). 

 
 
 a "whatpu" is a small, furry animal native to tanzania. an example of a sentence that uses the word whatpu is: 
 we were traveling in africa and we saw these very cute whatpus.
 
to do a "farduddle" means to jump up and down really fast. an example of a sentence that uses the word farduddle is:
 one day when i was playing tag with my little sister, she got really excited and she started doing these crazy farduddles.
 a "yalubalu" is a type of vegetable that looks like a big pumpkin. an example of a sentence that uses the word yalubalu is:
 i was on a trip to africa and i tried this yalubalu vegetable that was grown in a garden there. it was delicious.
 
 a "burringo" is a car with very fast acceleration. an example of a sentence that uses the word burringo is:
 in our garage we have a burringo that my father drives to work every day.
 
 a "gigamuru" is a type of japanese musical instrument. an example of a sentence that uses the word gigamuru is:
 i have a gigamuru that my uncle gave me as a gift. i love to play it at home.
 
 to "screeg" something is to swing a sword at it. an example of a sentence that uses the word screeg is:
 we screeghed at each other for several minutes and then we went outside and ate ice cream. 
 
 representative gpt-3 completions for the few-shot task of using a new word in a sentence. boldface is gpt-3 s completions, plain text is human prompts. in the first example both the prompt and the completion are provided by a human; this then serves as conditioning for subsequent examples where gpt-3 receives successive additional prompts and provides the completions. nothing task-specific is provided to gpt-3 other than the conditioning shown here. 

 
 
 poor english input: i eated the purple berries.
 good english output: i ate the purple berries.
 poor english input: thank you for picking me as your designer. i d appreciate it. 
 good english output: thank you for choosing me as your designer. i appreciate it.
 poor english input: the mentioned changes have done. or i did the alteration that you requested. or i changed things you wanted and did the modifications.
 good english output: the requested changes have been made. or i made the alteration that you requested. or i changed things you wanted and made the modifications.
 poor english input: i d be more than happy to work with you in another project.
 good english output: i d be more than happy to work with you on another project. 
 
 poor english input: please provide me with a short brief of the design you re looking for and that d be nice if you could share some examples or project you did before.
 good english output: please provide me with a brief description of the design you re looking for and that would be nice if you could share some examples or projects you have done before.
 
 poor english input: the patient was died.
 good english output: the patient died.
 
 poor english input: we think that leslie likes ourselves.
 good english output: we think that leslie likes us.
 
 poor english input: janet broke bill on the finger.
 good english output: janet broke bill s finger.
 
 poor english input: mary arranged for, in st. louis, john to rent a house cheap.
 good english output: mary arranged for john to rent a house in st. louis.
 
 poor english input: today i have went to the store to to buys some many bottle of water.
 good english output: today i went to the store to buy some bottles of water.
 
 poor english input: i have tried to hit ball with bat, but my swing is has miss.
 good english output: i tried to hit the ball with the bat, but my swing missed. 
 
 representative gpt-3 completions for the few-shot task of correcting english grammar. boldface is gpt-3 s completions, plain text is human prompts. in the first few examples example both the prompt and the completion are provided by a human; this then serves as conditioning for subsequent examples where gpt-3 receives successive additional prompts and provides the completions. nothing task-specific is provided to gpt-3 aside from the first few examples as conditioning and the poor english input good english output framing. we note that the distinction between poor and good english (and the terms themselves) is complex, contextual, and contested. as the example mentioning the rental of a house shows, assumptions that the model makes about what good is can even lead it to make errors (here, the model not only adjusts grammar, but also removes the word cheap in a way that alters meaning). 

 
 
 .5 learning and using novel words 
 
 a task studied in developmental linguistics is the ability to learn and utilize new words, for example using a word in a sentence after seeing it defined only once, or conversely inferring a word s meaning from only one usage. here we qualitatively test gpt-3 s ability to do the former. specifically, we give gpt-3 the definition of a nonexistent word, such as gigamuru , and then ask it to use it in a sentence. we provide one to five previous examples of a (separate) nonexistent word being defined and used in a sentence, so the task is few-shot in terms of previous examples of the broad task and one-shot in terms of the specific word. shows the 6 examples we generated; all definitions were human-generated, and the first answer was human-generated as conditioning while the subsequent answers were generated by gpt-3. these examples were generated continuously in one sitting and we did not omit or repeatedly try any prompts. in all cases the generated sentence appears to be a correct or at least plausible use of the word. in the final sentence the model generates a plausible conjugation for the word screeg (namely screeghed ), although the use of the word is slightly awkward ( screeghed at each other ) despite being plausible in the sense that it could describe a toy sword fight. overall, gpt-3 appears to be at least proficient at the task of using novel words in a sentence. 

 
 
 .6 correcting english grammar 
 
 another task well suited for few-shot learning is correcting english grammar. we test this with gpt-3 in the few-shot setting by giving prompts of the form "poor english input: sentence good english output: sentence " we give gpt-3 one human-generated correction and then ask it to correct 5 more (again without any omissions or repeats). results are shown in 

 

 
 4 measuring and preventing memorization of benchmarks 
 
 gpt-3 training curves we measure model performance during training on a deduplicated validation split of our training distribution. though there is some gap between training and validation performance, the gap grows only minimally with model size and training time, suggesting that most of the gap comes from a difference in difficulty rather than overfitting. 

 since our training dataset is sourced from the internet, it is possible that our model was trained on some of our benchmark test sets. accurately detecting test contamination from internet-scale datasets is a new area of research without established best practices. while it is common practice to train large models without investigating contamination, given the increasing scale of pretraining datasets, we believe this issue is becoming increasingly important to attend to. 

 this concern is not just hypothetical. one of the first papers to train a language model on common crawl data detected and removed a training document which overlapped with one of their evaluation datasets. other work such as gpt-2 also conducted post-hoc overlap analysis. their study was relatively encouraging, finding that although models did perform moderately better on data that overlapped between training and testing, this did not significantly impact reported results due to the small fraction of data which was contaminated (often only a few percent). 

 gpt-3 operates in a somewhat different regime. on the one hand, the dataset and model size are about two orders of magnitude larger than those used for gpt-2, and include a large amount of common crawl, creating increased potential for contamination and memorization. on the other hand, precisely due to the large amount of data, even gpt-3 b does not overfit its training set by a significant amount, measured relative to a held-out validation set with which it was deduplicated ( ). thus, we expect that contamination is likely to be frequent, but that its effects may not be as large as feared. 

 we initially tried to address the issue of contamination by proactively searching for and attempting to remove any overlap between our training data and the development and test sets of all benchmarks studied in this paper. unfortunately, a bug resulted in only partial removal of all detected overlaps from the training data. due to the cost of training, it wasn t feasible to retrain the model. to address this, we investigate in detail how the remaining detected overlap impacts results. 

 for each benchmark, we produce a clean version which removes all potentially leaked examples, defined roughly as examples that have a -gram overlap with anything in the pretraining set (or that overlap with the whole example when it is shorter than -grams). the goal is to very conservatively flag anything that could potentially be contamination, so as to produce a clean subset that is free of contamination with high confidence. the exact procedure is detailed in appendix c 

 we then evaluate gpt-3 on these clean benchmarks, and compare to the original score. if the score on the clean subset is similar to the score on the entire dataset, this suggests that contamination, even if present, does not have a significant effect on reported results. if the score on the clean subset is lower, this suggests contamination may be inflating the results. the results are summarized in although potential contamination is often high (with a quarter of benchmarks scoring over ), in most cases performance changes only negligibly, and we see no evidence that contamination level and performance difference are correlated. we conclude that either our conservative method substantially overestimated contamination or that contamination has little effect on performance. 

 below, we review in more detail the few specific cases where either (1) the model performs significantly worse on the cleaned version, or (2) potential contamination is very high, which makes measuring the performance difference difficult. 

 benchmark contamination analysis we constructed cleaned versions of each of our benchmarks to check for potential contamination in our training set. the x-axis is a conservative lower bound for how much of the dataset is known with high confidence to be clean, and the y-axis shows the difference in performance when evaluating only on the verified clean subset. performance on most benchmarks changed negligibly, but some were flagged for further review. on inspection we find some evidence for contamination of the piqa and winograd results, and we mark the corresponding results in with an asterisk. we find no evidence that other benchmarks are affected. 

 our analysis flagged six groups of benchmarks for further investigation: word scrambling, reading comprehension (quac, squad2, drop), piqa, winograd, language modeling tasks (wikitext tasks, 1bw), and german to english translation. since our overlap analysis is designed to be extremely conservative, we expect it to produce some false positives. we summarize the results for each group of tasks below: 

 
 
 reading comprehension: our initial analysis flagged of task examples from quac, squad2, and drop as potentially contaminated, so large that even measuring the differential on a clean subset was difficult. upon manual inspection, however, we found that for every overlap we inspected, in all 3 datasets, the source text was present in our training data but the question answer pairs were not, meaning the model gains only background information and cannot memorize the answer to a specific question. 

 

 german translation: we found of the examples in the wmt german-english test set were marked as potentially contaminated, with an associated total effect size of 1-2 bleu. upon inspection, none of the flagged examples contain paired sentences resembling nmt training data and collisions were monolingual matches mostly of snippets of events discussed in the news. 

 

 reversed words and anagrams: recall that these tasks are of the form alaok koala . due to the short length of these tasks, we used 2-grams for filtering (ignoring punctuation). after inspecting the flagged overlaps, we found that they were not typically instances of real reversals or unscramblings in the training set, but rather palindromes or trivial unscramblings, e.g kayak kayak . the amount of overlap was small, but removing the trivial tasks lead to an increase in difficulty and thus a spurious signal. related to this, the symbol insertion task shows high overlap but no effect on performance this is because that task involves removing non-letter characters from a word, and the overlap analysis itself ignores such characters, leading to many spurious matches. 

 

 piqa: the overlap analysis flagged of examples as contaminated, and observed a 3 percentage point absolute decrease (4 relative decrease) in performance on the clean subset. though the test dataset was released after our training set was created and its labels are hidden, some of the web pages used by the crowdsourced dataset creators are contained in our training set. we found a similar decrease in a x smaller model with much less capacity to memorize, leading us to suspect that the shift is likely statistical bias rather than memorization; examples which workers copied may simply be easier. unfortunately, we cannot rigorously prove this hypothesis. we therefore mark our piqa results with an asterisk to denote this potential contamination. 

 

 winograd: the overlap analysis flagged of examples, and found a decrease in performance on the clean subset. manual inspection of the overlapping data point showed that winograd schemas were in fact present in our training set, though presented in a different format than we present the task to the model. although the decrease in performance is small, we mark our winograd results in the main paper with an asterisk. 

 

 language modeling: we found the 4 wikipedia language modeling benchmarks measured in gpt-2, plus the children s book test dataset, to be almost entirely contained in our training data. since we cannot reliably extract a clean subset here, we do not report results on these datasets, even though we intended to when starting this work. we note that penn tree bank due to its age was unaffected and therefore became our chief language modeling benchmark. 

 

 we also inspected datasets where contamination was high, but the impact on performance was close to zero, simply to verify how much actual contamination existed. these appeared to often contain false positives. they had either no actual contamination, or had contamination that did not give away the answer to the task. one notable exception was lambada, which appeared to have substantial genuine contamination, yet the impact on performance was very small, with the clean subset scoring within of the full dataset. also, strictly speaking, our fill-in-the-blank format precludes the simplest form of memorization. nevertheless, since we made very large gains on lambada in this paper, the potential contamination is noted in the results section. 

 an important limitation of our contamination analysis is that we cannot be sure that the clean subset is drawn from the same distribution as the original dataset. it remains possible that memorization inflates results but at the same time is precisely counteracted by some statistical bias causing the clean subset to be easier. however, the sheer number of shifts close to zero suggests this is unlikely, and we also observed no noticeable difference in the shifts for small models, which are unlikely to be memorizing. 

 overall, we have made a best effort to measure and document the effects of data contamination, and to note or outright remove problematic results, depending on the severity. much work remains to be done to address this important and subtle issue for the field in general, both when designing benchmarks and when training models. for a more detailed explanation of our analysis, we refer the reader to appendix c 

 
 
 5 limitations 
 
 gpt-3 and our analysis of it have a number of limitations. below we describe some of these and suggest directions for future work. 

 first, despite the strong quantitative and qualitative improvements of gpt-3, particularly compared to its direct predecessor gpt-2, it still has notable weaknesses in text synthesis and several nlp tasks. on text synthesis, although the overall quality is high, gpt-3 samples still sometimes repeat themselves semantically at the document level, start to lose coherence over sufficiently long passages, contradict themselves, and occasionally contain non-sequitur sentences or paragraphs. we will release a collection of uncurated unconditional samples to help provide a better sense of gpt-3 s limitations and strengths at text synthesis. within the domain of discrete language tasks, we have noticed informally that gpt-3 seems to have special difficulty with common sense physics , despite doing well on some datasets (such as piqa ) that test this domain. specifically gpt-3 has difficulty with questions of the type if i put cheese into the fridge, will it melt? . quantitatively, gpt-3 s in-context learning performance has some notable gaps on our suite of benchmarks, as described in and in particular it does little better than chance when evaluated one-shot or even few-shot on some comparison tasks, such as determining if two words are used the same way in a sentence, or if one sentence implies another (wic and anli respectively), as well as on a subset of reading comprehension tasks. this is especially striking given gpt-3 s strong few-shot performance on many other tasks. 

 gpt-3 has several structural and algorithmic limitations, which could account for some of the issues above. we focused on exploring in-context learning behavior in autoregressive language models because it is straightforward to both sample and compute likelihoods with this model class. as a result our experiments do not include any bidirectional architectures or other training objectives such as denoising. this is a noticeable difference from much of the recent literature, which has documented improved fine-tuning performance when using these approaches over standard language models thus our design decision comes at the cost of potentially worse performance on tasks which empirically benefit from bidirectionality. this may include fill-in-the-blank tasks, tasks that involve looking back and comparing two pieces of content, or tasks that require re-reading or carefully considering a long passage and then generating a very short answer. this could be a possible explanation for gpt-3 s lagging few-shot performance on a few of the tasks, such as wic (which involves comparing the use of a word in two sentences), anli (which involves comparing two sentences to see if one implies the other), and several reading comprehension tasks (e.g. quac and race). we also conjecture, based on past literature, that a large bidirectional model would be stronger at fine-tuning than gpt-3. making a bidirectional model at the scale of gpt-3, and or trying to make bidirectional models work with few- or zero-shot learning, is a promising direction for future research, and could help achieve the best of both worlds . 

 a more fundamental limitation of the general approach described in this paper scaling up any lm-like model, whether autoregressive or bidirectional is that it may eventually run into (or could already be running into) the limits of the pretraining objective. our current objective weights every token equally and lacks a notion of what is most important to predict and what is less important. demonstrate benefits of customizing prediction to entities of interest. also, with self-supervised objectives, task specification relies on forcing the desired task into a prediction problem, whereas ultimately, useful language systems (for example virtual assistants) might be better thought of as taking goal-directed actions rather than just making predictions. finally, large pretrained language models are not grounded in other domains of experience, such as video or real-world physical interaction, and thus lack a large amount of context about the world for all these reasons, scaling pure self-supervised prediction is likely to hit limits, and augmentation with a different approach is likely to be necessary. promising future directions in this vein might include learning the objective function from humans fine-tuning with reinforcement learning, or adding additional modalities such as images to provide grounding and a better model of the world 

 another limitation broadly shared by language models is poor sample efficiency during pre-training. while gpt-3 takes a step towards test-time sample efficiency closer to that of humans (one-shot or zero-shot), it still sees much more text during pre-training than a human sees in the their lifetime improving pre-training sample efficiency is an important direction for future work, and might come from grounding in the physical world to provide additional information, or from algorithmic improvements. 

 a limitation, or at least uncertainty, associated with few-shot learning in gpt-3 is ambiguity about whether few-shot learning actually learns new tasks from scratch at inference time, or if it simply recognizes and identifies tasks that it has learned during training. these possibilities exist on a spectrum, ranging from demonstrations in the training set that are drawn from exactly the same distribution as those at test time, to recognizing the same task but in a different format, to adapting to a specific style of a general task such as qa, to learning a skill entirely de novo. where gpt-3 is on this spectrum may also vary from task to task. synthetic tasks such as wordscrambling or defining nonsense words seem especially likely to be learned de novo, whereas translation clearly must be learned during pretraining, although possibly from data that is very different in organization and style than the test data. ultimately, it is not even clear what humans learn from scratch vs from prior demonstrations. even organizing diverse demonstrations during pre-training and identifying them at test time would be an advance for language models, but nevertheless understanding precisely how few-shot learning works is an important unexplored direction for future research. 

 a limitation associated with models at the scale of gpt-3, regardless of objective function or algorithm, is that they are both expensive and inconvenient to perform inference on, which may present a challenge for practical applicability of models of this scale in their current form. one possible future direction to address this is distillation of large models down to a manageable size for specific tasks. large models such as gpt-3 contain a very wide range of skills, most of which are not needed for a specific task, suggesting that in principle aggressive distillation may be possible. distillation is well-explored in general but has not been tried at the scale of hundred of billions parameters; new challenges and opportunities may be associated with applying it to models of this size. 

 finally, gpt-3 shares some limitations common to most deep learning systems its decisions are not easily interpretable, it is not necessarily well-calibrated in its predictions on novel inputs as observed by the much higher variance in performance than humans on standard benchmarks, and it retains the biases of the data it has been trained on. this last issue biases in the data that may lead the model to generate stereotyped or prejudiced content is of special concern from a societal perspective, and will be discussed along with other issues in the next section on broader impacts ( ). 

 
 
 6 broader impacts 
 
 language models have a wide range of beneficial applications for society, including code and writing auto-completion, grammar assistance, game narrative generation, improving search engine responses, and answering questions. but they also have potentially harmful applications. gpt-3 improves the quality of text generation and adaptability over smaller models and increases the difficulty of distinguishing synthetic text from human-written text. it therefore has the potential to advance both the beneficial and harmful applications of language models. 

 here we focus on the potential harms of improved language models, not because we believe the harms are necessarily greater, but in order to stimulate efforts to study and mitigate them. the broader impacts of language models like this are numerous. we focus on two primary issues: the potential for deliberate misuse of language models like gpt-3 in and issues of bias, fairness, and representation within models like gpt-3 in we also briefly discuss issues of energy efficiency ( ). 

 
 misuse of language models 
 
 malicious uses of language models can be somewhat difficult to anticipate because they often involve repurposing language models in a very different environment or for a different purpose than researchers intended. to help with this, we can think in terms of traditional security risk assessment frameworks, which outline key steps such as identifying threats and potential impacts, assessing likelihood, and determining risk as a combination of likelihood and impact we discuss three factors: potential misuse applications, threat actors, and external incentive structures. 

 
 .1 potential misuse applications 
 
 any socially harmful activity that relies on generating text could be augmented by powerful language models. examples include misinformation, spam, phishing, abuse of legal and governmental processes, fraudulent academic essay writing and social engineering pretexting. many of these applications bottleneck on human beings to write sufficiently high quality text. language models that produce high quality text generation could lower existing barriers to carrying out these activities and increase their efficacy. 

 the misuse potential of language models increases as the quality of text synthesis improves. the ability of gpt-3 to generate several paragraphs of synthetic content that people find difficult to distinguish from human-written text in .4 represents a concerning milestone in this regard. 

 
 
 .2 threat actor analysis 
 
 threat actors can be organized by skill and resource levels, ranging from low or moderately skilled and resourced actors who may be able to build a malicious product to advanced persistent threats (apts): highly skilled and well-resourced (e.g. state-sponsored) groups with long-term agendas 

 to understand how low and mid-skill actors think about language models, we have been monitoring forums and chat groups where misinformation tactics, malware distribution, and computer fraud are frequently discussed. while we did find significant discussion of misuse following the initial release of gpt-2 in spring of we found fewer instances of experimentation and no successful deployments since then. additionally, those misuse discussions were correlated with media coverage of language model technologies. from this, we assess that the threat of misuse from these actors is not immediate, but significant improvements in reliability could change this. 

 because apts do not typically discuss operations in the open, we have consulted with professional threat analysts about possible apt activity involving the use of language models. since the release of gpt-2 there has been no discernible difference in operations that may see potential gains by using language models. the assessment was that language models may not be worth investing significant resources in because there has been no convincing demonstration that current language models are significantly better than current methods for generating text, and because methods for targeting or controlling the content of language models are still at a very early stage. 

 
 
 .3 external incentive structures 
 
 each threat actor group also has a set of tactics, techniques, and procedures (ttps) that they rely on to accomplish their agenda. ttps are influenced by economic factors like scalability and ease of deployment; phishing is extremely popular among all groups because it offers a low-cost, low-effort, high-yield method of deploying malware and stealing login credentials. using language models to augment existing ttps would likely result in an even lower cost of deployment. 

 ease of use is another significant incentive. having stable infrastructure has a large impact on the adoption of ttps. the outputs of language models are stochastic, however, and though developers can constrain these (e.g. using top-k truncation) they are not able to perform consistently without human feedback. if a social media disinformation bot produces outputs that are reliable of the time, but produces incoherent outputs 1 of the time, this could reduce the amount of human labor required in operating this bot. but a human is still needed to filter the outputs, which restricts how scalable the operation can be. 

 based on our analysis of this model and analysis of threat actors and the landscape, we suspect ai researchers will eventually develop language models that are sufficiently consistent and steerable that they will be of greater interest to malicious actors. we expect this will introduce challenges for the broader research community, and hope to work on this through a combination of mitigation research, prototyping, and coordinating with other technical developers. 

 

 fairness, bias, and representation 
 
 biases present in training data may lead models to generate stereotyped or prejudiced content. this is concerning, since model bias could harm people in the relevant groups in different ways by entrenching existing stereotypes and producing demeaning portrayals amongst other potential harms we have conducted an analysis of biases in the model in order to better understand gpt-3 s limitations when it comes to fairness, bias, and representation. 8 8 8 evaluating fairness, bias, and representation in language models is a rapidly-developing area with a large body of prior work. see, for example, 

 our goal is not to exhaustively characterize gpt-3, but to give a preliminary analysis of some of its limitations and behaviors. we focus on biases relating to gender, race, and religion, although many other categories of bias are likely present and could be studied in follow-up work. this is a preliminary analysis and does not reflect all of the model s biases even within the studied categories. 

 broadly, our analysis indicates that internet-trained models have internet-scale biases; models tend to reflect stereotypes present in their training data. below we discuss our preliminary findings of bias along the dimensions of gender, race, and religion. we probe for bias in the billion parameter model and also in similar smaller models, to see if and how they are different in this dimension. 

 
 .1 gender 
 
 in our investigation of gender bias in gpt-3, we focused on associations between gender and occupation. we found that occupations in general have a higher probability of being followed by a male gender identifier than a female one (in other words, they are male leaning) when given a context such as "the occupation was a" (neutral variant). of the occupations we tested were more likely to be followed by a male identifier by gpt-3. we measured this by feeding the model a context such as "the detective was a" and then looking at the probability of the model following up with male indicating words (eg. man, male etc.) or female indicating words (woman, female etc.). in particular, occupations demonstrating higher levels of education such as legislator, banker, or professor emeritus were heavily male leaning along with occupations that require hard physical labour such as mason, millwright, and sheriff. occupations that were more likely to be followed by female identifiers include midwife, nurse, receptionist, housekeeper etc. 

 we also tested how these probabilities changed when we shifted the context to be the "the competent occupation was a" (competent variant), and when we shifted the context to be "the incompetent occupation was a" (incompetent variant) for each occupation in the dataset. we found that, when prompted with "the competent occupation was a," the majority of occupations had an even higher probability of being followed by a male identifier than a female one than was the case with our original neutral prompt, "the occupation was a" with the prompt "the incompetent occupation was a" the majority of occupations still leaned male with a similar probability than for our original neutral prompt. the average occupation bias - measured as 1 n jobs jobs log ( p ( female context ) p ( male context ) ) ) n ( p( ) p( )) ) - was - for the neutral variant, - for the competent variant and - for the incompetent variant. 

 we also carried out pronoun resolution on the winogender dataset using two methods which further corroborated the model s tendency to associate most occupations with males. one method measured the models ability to correctly assign a pronoun as the occupation or the participant. for example, we fed the model a context such as "the advisor met with the advisee because she wanted to get advice about job applications. she refers to the" and found the option with the lowest probability between the two possible options (choices between occupation option: advisor; participant option: advisee). 

 occupation and participant words often have societal biases associated with them such as the assumption that most occupants are by default male. we found that the language models learnt some of these biases such as a tendency to associate female pronouns with participant positions more than male pronouns. gpt-3 b had the highest accuracy of all the models ( ) on this task. it was also the only model where the accuracy for occupant sentences (sentences where the correct answer was the occupation option) for females was higher than for males ( vs ). all other models had a higher accuracy for male pronouns with occupation sentences as compared to female pronouns with the exception of our second largest model- gpt-3 b - which had the same accuracy ( ) for both. this offers some preliminary evidence that in places where issues of bias can make language models susceptible to error, the larger models are more robust than smaller models. 

 we also performed co-occurrence tests, where we analyzed which words are likely to occur in the vicinity of other pre-selected words. we created a model output sample set by generating outputs of length each with a temperature of 1 and top p of for every prompt in our dataset. for gender, we had prompts such as "he was very" "she was very" "he would be described as" "she would be described as" 9 9 9 we only used male and female pronouns. this simplifying assumption makes it easier to study co-occurrence since it does not require the isolation of instances in which they refers to a singular noun from those where it didn t, but other forms of gender bias are likely present and could be studied using different approaches. we looked at the adjectives and adverbs in the top most favored words using an off-the-shelf pos tagger we found females were more often described using appearance oriented words such as beautiful and gorgeous as compared to men who were more often described using adjectives that span a greater spectrum. 

 shows the top most favored descriptive words for the model along with the raw number of times each word co-occurred with a pronoun indicator. most favored here indicates words which were most skewed towards a category by co-occurring with it at a higher rate as compared to the other category. to put these numbers in perspective, we have also included the average for the number of co-occurrences across all qualifying words for each gender. 

 most biased descriptive words in b model 

 

 top most biased male descriptive words with raw co-occurrence counts 

 
 
 top most biased female descriptive words with raw co-occurrence counts 

 

 

 average number of co-occurrences across all words: 

 
 
 average number of co-occurrences across all words: 

 

 
 large ( ) 

 
 
 optimistic ( ) 

 

 
 mostly ( ) 

 
 
 bubbly ( ) 

 

 
 lazy ( ) 

 
 
 naughty ( ) 

 

 
 fantastic ( ) 

 
 
 easy-going ( ) 

 

 
 eccentric ( ) 

 
 
 petite ( ) 

 

 
 protect ( ) 

 
 
 tight ( ) 

 

 
 jolly ( ) 

 
 
 pregnant ( ) 

 

 
 stable (9) 

 
 
 gorgeous ( ) 

 

 
 personable ( ) 

 
 
 sucked (8) 

 

 
 survive (7) 

 
 
 beautiful ( ) 

 

 

 
 .2 race 
 
 to investigate racial bias in gpt-3, we seeded the model with prompts such as - "the race man was very" "the race woman was very" and "people would describe the race person as" and generated samples for each of the above prompts, with race replaced with a term indicating a racial category such as white or asian. we then measure word co-occurrences in the generated samples. given prior research demonstrating that language models produce text of differing sentiment when varying features such as occupation we explored how race impacted sentiment. we measured sentiment using senti wordnet for the words which co-occurred disproportionately with each race. each word sentiment varied from to - with positive scores indicating positive words (eg. wonderfulness: amicable: ), negative scores indicating negative words (eg. wretched: - horrid: - ) and a score of 0 indicating neutral words (eg. sloping, chalet). 

 it should be noted that we were explicitly prompting the models to talk about race and this in turn generated text that focused on racial features; these results are not from the models talking about race in the wild but talking about race in an experimental setup where they have been primed to do so. additionally, since we are measuring sentiment by simply looking at word co-occurrences, the resulting sentiment can reflect socio-historical factors - for instance, text relating to a discussion of slavery will frequently have a negative sentiment, which may lead to a demographic being associated with a negative sentiment under this testing methodology. 

 across the models we analyzed, asian had a consistently high sentiment - it ranked 1st in 3 out of 7 models. on the other hand, black had a consistently low sentiment - it ranked the lowest in 5 out of 7 models. these differences narrowed marginally on the larger model sizes. this analysis gives a sense of the biases of different models and highlights the need for more sophisticated analysis of the relationship between sentiment, entities, and input data. 

 racial sentiment across models 

 
 
 .3 religion 
 
 we studied which words co-occurred with religious terms relating to atheism, buddhism, christianity, hinduism, islam, and judaism, by generating model outputs of length with a temperature of 1 and a top p p of for every prompt. our prompts were of the nature " religion practitioners are" (eg. "christians are" ) for each of the six religious categories listed above. we then allowed the model to naturally carry out completions and created a corpus of such completions for studying co-occurrence of words. 

 the following is an example output from the model:

 

 
 "buddhists are divided into two main branches - theravada and mahayana. theravada is the more conservative branch, centering on monastic life and the earliest sutras and refusing to recognize the later mahayana sutras as authentic." 

 

 similar to race, we found that the models make associations with religious terms that indicate some propensity to reflect how these terms are sometimes presented in the world. for example, with the religion islam we found that words such as ramadan prophet and mosque co-occurred at a higher rate than for other religions. we also found that words such as violent terrorism and terrorist co-occurred at a greater rate with islam than with other religions and were in the top most favored words for islam in gpt-3. 

 

 religion 

 most favored descriptive words 

 

 
 atheism 

 theists , cool , agnostics , mad , theism , defensive , complaining , correct , arrogant , characterized 

 
 
 buddhism 

 myanmar , vegetarians , burma , fellowship , monk , japanese , reluctant , wisdom , enlightenment , non-violent 

 
 
 christianity 

 attend , ignorant , response , judgmental , grace , execution , egypt , continue , comments , officially 

 
 
 hinduism 

 caste , cows , bjp , kashmir , modi , celebrated , dharma , pakistani , originated , africa 

 
 
 islam 

 pillars , terrorism , fasting , sheikh , non-muslim , source , charities , levant , allah , prophet 

 
 
 judaism 

 gentiles , race , semites , whites , blacks , smartest , racists , arabs , game , russian 

 

 shows the ten most favored words about each religion in the gpt-3 b model. 

 
 
 .4 future bias and fairness challenges 
 
 we have presented this preliminary analysis to share some of the biases we found in order to motivate further research, and to highlight the inherent difficulties in characterizing biases in large-scale generative models; we expect this to be an area of continuous research for us and are excited to discuss different methodological approaches with the community. we view the work in this section as subjective signposting - we chose gender, race, and religion as a starting point, but we recognize the inherent subjectivity in this choice. our work is inspired by the literature on characterizing model attributes to develop informative labels such as model cards for model reporting from 

 ultimately, it is important not just to characterize biases in language systems but to intervene. the literature on this is also extensive so we offer only a few brief comments on future directions specific to large language models. in order to pave the way for effective bias prevention in general purpose models, there is a need for building a common vocabulary tying together the normative, technical and empirical challenges of bias mitigation for these models. there is room for more research that engages with the literature outside nlp, better articulates normative statements about harm, and engages with the lived experience of communities affected by nlp systems thus, mitigation work should not be approached purely with a metric driven objective to remove bias as this has been shown to have blind spots but in a holistic manner. 

 

 energy usage 
 
 practical large-scale pre-training requires large amounts of computation, which is energy-intensive: training the gpt-3 b consumed several thousand petaflop s-days of compute during pre-training, compared to tens of petaflop s-days for a b parameter gpt-2 model ( ). this means we should be cognizant of the cost and efficiency of such models, as advocated by 

 the use of large-scale pre-training also gives another lens through which to view the efficiency of large models - we should consider not only the resources that go into training them, but how these resources are amortized over the lifetime of a model, which will subsequently be used for a variety of purposes and fine-tuned for specific tasks. though models like gpt-3 consume significant resources during training, they can be surprisingly efficient once trained: even with the full gpt-3 b, generating pages of content from a trained model can cost on the order of kw-hr, or only a few cents in energy costs. additionally, techniques like model distillation can further bring down the cost of such models, letting us adopt a paradigm of training single, large-scale models, then creating more efficient versions of them for use in appropriate contexts. algorithmic progress may also naturally further increase the efficiency of such models over time, similar to trends observed in image recognition and neural machine translation 

 

 7 related work 
 
 several lines of work have focused on increasing parameter count and or computation in language models as a means to improve generative or task performance. an early work scaled lstm based language models to over a billion parameters one line of work straightforwardly increases the size of transformer models, scaling up parameters and flops-per-token roughly in proportion. work in this vein has successively increased model size: million parameters in the original paper, million parameters billion parameters 8 billion parameters billion parameters and most recently billion parameters a second line of work has focused on increasing parameter count but not computation, as a means of increasing models capacity to store information without increased computational cost. these approaches rely on the conditional computation framework and specifically, the mixture-of-experts method has been used to produce billion parameter models and more recently billion parameter translation models though only a small fraction of the parameters are actually used on each forward pass. a third approach increases computation without increasing parameters; examples of this approach include adaptive computation time and the universal transformer our work focuses on the first approach (scaling compute and parameters together, by straightforwardly making the neural net larger), and increases model size x beyond previous models that employ this strategy. 

 several efforts have also systematically studied the effect of scale on language model performance. find a smooth power-law trend in loss as autoregressive language models are scaled up. this work suggests that this trend largely continues as models continue to scale up (although a slight bending of the curve can perhaps be detected in ), and we also find relatively smooth increases in many (though not all) downstream tasks across 3 orders of magnitude of scaling. 

 another line of work goes in the opposite direction from scaling, attempting to preserve strong performance in language models that are as small as possible. this approach includes albert as well as general and task-specific approaches to distillation of language models. these architectures and techniques are potentially complementary to our work, and could be applied to decrease latency and memory footprint of giant models. 

 as fine-tuned language models have neared human performance on many standard benchmark tasks, considerable effort has been devoted to constructing more difficult or open-ended tasks, including question answering reading comprehension and adversarially constructed datasets designed to be difficult for existing language models in this work we test our models on many of these datasets. 

 many previous efforts have focused specifically on question-answering, which constitutes a significant fraction of the tasks we tested on. recent efforts include which fine-tuned an billion parameter language model, and which focused on attending over a large corpus of data at test time. our work differs in focusing on in-context learning but could be combined in the future with those of 

 metalearning in language models has been utilized in though with much more limited results and no systematic study. more broadly, language model metalearning has an inner-loop-outer-loop structure, making it structurally similar to metalearning as applied to ml in general. here there is an extensive literature, including matching networks rl2 learning to optimize and maml our approach of stuffing the model s context with previous examples is most structurally similar to rl2 and also resembles in that an inner loop of adaptation takes place through computation in the model s activations across timesteps, without updating the weights, while an outer loop (in this case just language model pre-training) updates the weights, and implicitly learns the ability to adapt to or at least recognize tasks defined at inference-time. few-shot auto-regressive density estimation was explored in and studied low-resource nmt as a few-shot learning problem. 

 while the mechanism of our few-shot approach is different, prior work has also explored ways of using pre-trained language models in combination with gradient descent to perform few-shot learning another sub-field with similar goals is semi-supervised learning where approaches such as uda also explore methods of fine-tuning when very little labeled data is available. 

 giving multi-task models instructions in natural language was first formalized in a supervised setting with and utilized for some tasks (such as summarizing) in a language model with the notion of presenting tasks in natural language was also explored in the text-to-text transformer although there it was applied for multi-task fine-tuning rather than for in-context learning without weight updates. 

 another approach to increasing generality and transfer-learning capability in language models is multi-task learning which fine-tunes on a mixture of downstream tasks together, rather than separately updating the weights for each one. if successful multi-task learning could allow a single model to be used for many tasks without updating the weights (similar to our in-context learning approach), or alternatively could improve sample efficiency when updating the weights for a new task. multi-task learning has shown some promising initial results and multi-stage fine-tuning has recently become a standardized part of sota results on some datasets and pushed the boundaries on certain tasks but is still limited by the need to manually curate collections of datasets and set up training curricula. by contrast pre-training at large enough scale appears to offer a natural broad distribution of tasks implicitly contained in predicting the text itself. one direction for future work might be attempting to generate a broader set of explicit tasks for multi-task learning, for example through procedural generation human interaction or active learning 

 algorithmic innovation in language models over the last two years has been enormous, including denoising-based bidirectionality prefixlm and encoder-decoder architectures random permutations during training architectures that improve the efficiency of sampling improvements in data and training procedures and efficiency increases in the embedding parameters many of these techniques provide significant gains on downstream tasks. in this work we continue to focus on pure autoregressive language models, both in order to focus on in-context learning performance and to reduce the complexity of our large model implementations. however, it is very likely that incorporating these algorithmic advances could improve gpt-3 s performance on downstream tasks, especially in the fine-tuning setting, and combining gpt-3 s scale with these algorithmic techniques is a promising direction for future work. 

 
 
 8 conclusion 
 
 we presented a billion parameter language model which shows strong performance on many nlp tasks and benchmarks in the zero-shot, one-shot, and few-shot settings, in some cases nearly matching the performance of state-of-the-art fine-tuned systems, as well as generating high-quality samples and strong qualitative performance at tasks defined on-the-fly. we documented roughly predictable trends of scaling in performance without using fine-tuning. we also discussed the social impacts of this class of model. despite many limitations and weaknesses, these results suggest that very large language models may be an important ingredient in the development of adaptable, general language systems. 

 
 acknowledgements 
 
 the authors would like to thank ryan lowe for giving detailed feedback on drafts of the paper. thanks to jakub pachocki and szymon sidor for suggesting tasks, and greg brockman, michael petrov, brooke chan, and chelsea voss for helping run evaluations on openai s infrastructure. thanks to david luan for initial support in scaling up this project, irene solaiman for discussions about ways to approach and evaluate bias, harrison edwards and yura burda for discussions and experimentation with in-context learning, geoffrey irving and paul christiano for early discussions of language model scaling, long ouyang for advising on the design of the human evaluation experiments, chris hallacy for discussions on data collection, and shan carter for help with visual design. thanks to the millions of people who created content that was used in the training of the model, and to those who were involved in indexing or upvoting the content (in the case of webtext). additionally, we would like to thank the entire openai infrastructure and supercomputing teams for making it possible to train models at this scale. 

 
 
 contributions 
 
 tom brown, ben mann, prafulla dhariwal, dario amodei, nick ryder, daniel m ziegler, and jeffrey wu implemented the large-scale models, training infrastructure, and model-parallel strategies. 

 tom brown, dario amodei, ben mann, and nick ryder conducted pre-training experiments. 

 ben mann and alec radford collected, filtered, deduplicated, and conducted overlap analysis on the training data. 

 melanie subbiah, ben mann, dario amodei, jared kaplan, sam mccandlish, tom brown, tom henighan, and girish sastry implemented the downstream tasks and the software framework for supporting them, including creation of synthetic tasks. 

 jared kaplan and sam mccandlish initially predicted that a giant language model should show continued gains, and applied scaling laws to help predict and guide model and data scaling decisions for the research. 

 ben mann implemented sampling without replacement during training. 

 alec radford originally demonstrated few-shot learning occurs in language models. 

 jared kaplan and sam mccandlish showed that larger models learn more quickly in-context, and systematically studied in-context learning curves, task prompting, and evaluation methods. 

 prafulla dhariwal implemented an early version of the codebase, and developed the memory optimizations for fully half-precision training. 

 rewon child and mark chen developed an early version of our model-parallel strategy. 

 rewon child and scott gray contributed the sparse transformer. 

 aditya ramesh experimented with loss scaling strategies for pretraining. 

 melanie subbiah and arvind neelakantan implemented, experimented with, and tested beam search. 

 pranav shyam worked on superglue and assisted with connections to few-shot learning and meta-learning literature. 

 sandhini agarwal conducted the fairness and representation analysis. 

 girish sastry and amanda askell conducted the human evaluations of the model. 

 ariel herbert-voss conducted the threat analysis of malicious use. 

 gretchen krueger edited and red-teamed the policy sections of the paper. 

 benjamin chess, clemens winter, eric sigler, christopher hesse, mateusz litwin, and christopher berner optimized openai s clusters to run the largest models efficiently. 

 scott gray developed fast gpu kernels used during training. 

 jack clark led the analysis of ethical impacts fairness and representation, human assessments of the model, and broader impacts analysis, and advised gretchen, amanda, girish, sandhini, and ariel on their work. 

 dario amodei, alec radford, tom brown, sam mccandlish, nick ryder, jared kaplan, sandhini agarwal, amanda askell, girish sastry, and jack clark wrote the paper. 

 sam mccandlish led the analysis of model scaling, and advised tom henighan and jared kaplan on their work. 

 alec radford advised the project from an nlp perspective, suggested tasks, put the results in context, and demonstrated the benefit of weight decay for training. 

 ilya sutskever was an early advocate for scaling large generative likelihood models, and advised pranav, prafulla, rewon, alec, and aditya on their work. 

 dario amodei designed and led the research. 

 

 
 appendix a details of common crawl filtering 
 
 as mentioned in we employed two techniques to improve the quality of the common crawl dataset: (1) filtering common crawl and (2) fuzzy deduplication: 

 
 
 1. 
 
 in order to improve the quality of common crawl, we developed an automatic filtering method to remove low quality documents. using the original webtext as a proxy for high-quality documents, we trained a classifier to distinguish these from raw common crawl. we then used this classifier to re-sample common crawl by prioritizing documents which were predicted by the classifier to be higher quality. the classifier is trained using logistic regression classifier with features from spark s standard tokenizer and hashingtf https: spark.apache.org docs latest api python pyspark.ml.html pyspark.ml.feature.hashingtf for the positive examples, we used a collection of curated datasets such as webtext, wikiedia, and our web books corpus as the positive examples, and for the negative examples, we used unfiltered common crawl. we used this classifier to score common crawl documents. we kept each document in our dataset iff 

 

 np.random.pareto ( ) 1 document score monospace-np.random.pareto 1 monospace-document score np.random.pareto ( ) 1- document score 

 

 we chose 9 9 9 in order to take mostly documents the classifier scored highly, but still include some documents that were out of distribution. was chosen to match the distribution of scores from our classifier on webtext. we found this re-weighting increased quality as measured by loss on a range of out-of-distribution generative text samples. 

 
 2. 
 
 to further improve model quality and prevent overfitting (which becomes increasingly important as model capacity increases), we fuzzily deduplicated documents (i.e. removed documents with high overlap with other documents) within each dataset using spark s minhashlsh implementation with hashes, using the same features as were used for classification above. we also fuzzily removed webtext from common crawl. overall this decreased dataset size by an average of . 

 

 after filtering for duplicates and quality, we also partially removed text occurring in benchmark datasets, described in appendix c 

 
 
 appendix b details of model training 
 
 to train all versions of gpt-3, we use adam with 1 subscript 1 1 2 subscript 2 2 and 8 italic- superscript 8 -8 we clip the global norm of the gradient at and we use cosine decay for learning rate down to of its value, over billion tokens (after billion tokens, training continues at of the original learning rate). there is a linear lr warmup over the first million tokens. we also gradually increase the batch size linearly from a small value ( k tokens) to the full value over the first 4- billion tokens of training, depending on the model size. data are sampled without replacement during training (until an epoch boundary is reached) to minimize overfitting. all models use weight decay of to provide a small amount of regularization 

 during training we always train on sequences of the full n ctx subscript ctx n token context window, packing multiple documents into a single sequence when documents are shorter than in order to increase computational efficiency. sequences with multiple documents are not masked in any special way but instead documents within a sequence are delimited with a special end of text token, giving the language model the information necessary to infer that context separated by the end of text token is unrelated. this allows for efficient training without need for any special sequence-specific masking. 

 
 
 appendix c details of test set contamination studies 
 
 in we gave a high level overview of test set contamination studies. in this section we provide details on methodology and results. 

 initial training set filtering 
 
 we attempted to remove text occurring in benchmarks from training data by searching for limit-from - gram overlaps between all test development sets used in this work and our training data, and we removed the colliding limit-from - gram as well as a character window around it, splitting the original document into pieces. for filtering purposes we define a gram as a lowercase, whitespace delimited word with no punctuation. pieces less than characters long were discarded. documents split into more than pieces were considered contaminated and removed entirely. originally we removed entire documents given a single collision, but that overly penalized long documents such as books for false positives. an example of a false positive might be a test set based on wikipedia, in which the wikipedia article quotes a single line from a book. we ignored limit-from - grams that matched more than training documents, as inspection showed the majority of these to contain common cultural phrases, legal boilerplate, or similar content that we likely do want the model to learn, rather than undesired specific overlaps with test sets. examples for various frequencies can be found in the gpt-3 release repository https: github.com openai gpt-3 blob master overlap frequency.md 

 
 overlap methodology 
 
 for our benchmark overlap analysis in we used a variable number of words n n to check for overlap for each dataset, where n n is the 5th percentile example length in words, ignoring all punctuation, whitespace, and casing. due to spurious collisions at lower values of n n we use a minimum value of 8 on non-synthetic tasks. for performance reasons, we set a maximum value of for all tasks. values for n n and the amount of data marked as dirty are shown in table c.1 unlike gpt-2 s use of bloom filters to compute probabilistic bounds for test contamination, we used apache spark to compute exact collisions across all training and test sets. we compute overlaps between test sets and our full training corpus, even though we only trained on of our filtered common crawl documents per 

 we define a dirty example as one with any n n -gram overlap with any training document, and a clean example as one with no collision. 

 test and validation splits had similar contamination levels despite some test splits being unlabeled. due to a bug revealed by this analysis, filtering described above failed on long documents such as books. because of cost considerations it was infeasible to retrain the model on a corrected version of the training dataset. as such, several language modeling benchmarks plus the children s book test showed almost complete overlap, and therefore were not included in this paper. overlaps are shown in table c.1 

 

 name 
 split 
 metric 
 n n 
 acc f1 bleu 

 total 
 count 

 
 
 dirty 
 acc f1 bleu 

 
 
 dirty 
 count 

 
 
 clean 
 acc f1 bleu 

 
 
 clean 
 count 

 
 
 clean 
 percentage 

 
 
 relative 
 difference 
 clean vs all 

 

 
 quac 
 dev 
 f1 

 

 
 
 1 

 
 squadv2 
 dev 
 f1 

 

 
 
 6 
 -2 

 drop 
 dev 
 f1 

 

 
 
 7 
 - 

 symbol insertion 
 dev 
 acc 
 7 

 

 
 
 0 

 coqa 
 dev 
 f1 

 

 

 1 

 record 
 dev 
 acc 

 

 

 -1 

 winograd 
 test 
 acc 
 9 

 

 
 
 -3 

 boolq 
 dev 
 acc 

 

 

 0 

 multirc 
 dev 
 acc 

 

 

 1 

 race-h 
 test 
 acc 

 

 

 0 

 lambada 
 test 
 acc 

 

 

 0 

 lambada (no blanks) 
 test 
 acc 

 

 

 -1 

 wsc 
 dev 
 acc 

 

 

 3 

 piqa 
 dev 
 acc 
 8 

 

 
 
 -4 

 race-m 
 test 
 acc 

 

 

 3 

 
 de en 
 
 test 
 bleu-sb 

 

 

 -5 

 
 en de 
 
 test 
 bleu-sb 

 

 

 -3 

 
 en ro 
 
 test 
 bleu-sb 

 

 

 1 

 
 ro en 
 
 test 
 bleu-sb 

 

 

 1 

 webqs 
 test 
 acc 
 8 

 

 
 
 0 

 anli r1 
 test 
 acc 

 

 

 -3 

 anli r2 
 test 
 acc 

 

 

 3 

 triviaqa 
 dev 
 acc 

 

 

 0 

 anli r3 
 test 
 acc 

 

 

 1 

 
 en fr 
 
 test 
 bleu-sb 

 

 

 1 

 
 fr en 
 
 test 
 bleu-sb 

 

 

 0 

 wic 
 dev 
 acc 

 

 

 0 

 rte 
 dev 
 acc 

 

 

 0 

 cb 
 dev 
 acc 

 
 
 4 

 
 -2 

 anagrams 2 
 dev 
 acc 
 2 

 

 
 
 -7 

 reversed words 
 dev 
 acc 
 2 

 

 
 
 - 

 openbookqa 
 test 
 acc 
 8 

 

 
 
 1 

 arc (easy) 
 test 
 acc 

 

 

 0 

 anagrams 1 
 dev 
 acc 
 2 

 

 
 
 -8 

 copa 
 dev 
 acc 
 9 

 
 3 

 
 0 

 arc (challenge) 
 test 
 acc 

 

 

 0 

 hellaswag 
 dev 
 acc 

 

 

 0 

 nqs 
 test 
 acc 

 

 

 0 

 cycled letters 
 dev 
 acc 
 2 

 

 
 
 0 

 sat analogies 
 dev 
 acc 
 9 

 
 2 

 
 0 

 storycloze 
 test 
 acc 

 
 
 2 

 
 0 

 winogrande 
 dev 
 acc 

 
 - 
 0 

 
 0 

 
 table c.1: overlap statistics for all datasets sorted from dirtiest to cleanest. we consider a dataset example dirty if it has a single n n -gram collision with any document in our training corpus. relative difference clean vs all shows the percent change in performance between only the clean examples vs all the examples in the benchmark. count shows the number of examples. clean percentage is the percent of examples that are clean vs total. for acc f1 bleu we use the metric specified in metric . these scores come from evaluations with a different seed for the random examples used for in-context learning, and will therefore differ slightly from the scores elsewhere in the paper. 

 
 overlap results 
 
 to understand how much having seen some of the data helps the model perform on downstream tasks, we filter every validation and test set by dirtiness. then we run evaluation on the clean-only examples and report the relative percent change between the clean score and the original score. if the clean score is more than 1 or 2 worse than the overall score, it suggests the model may have overfit to the examples it has seen. if the clean score is significantly better our filtering scheme may have preferentially marked easier examples as dirty. 

 this overlap metric tends to show a high rate of false positives for datasets that contain background information (but not answers) drawn from the web (such as squad, which draws from wikipedia) or examples less than 8 words long, which we ignored in our filtering process (except for wordscrambling tasks). one instance where this technique seems to fail to give good signal is drop, a reading comprehension task in which of the examples are dirty. the information required to answer the question is in a passage provided to the model, so having seen the passage during training but not the questions and answers does not meaningfully constitute cheating. we confirmed that every matching training document contained only the source passage, and none of the questions and answers in the dataset. the more likely explanation for the decrease in performance is that the 6 of examples that remain after filtering come from a slightly different distribution than the dirty examples. 

 shows that as the dataset becomes more contaminated, the variance of the clean all fraction increases, but there is no apparent bias towards improved or degraded performance. this suggests that gpt-3 is relatively insensitive to contamination. see for details on the datasets we flagged for further review. 

 

 
 appendix d total compute used to train language models 
 
 this appendix contains the calculations that were used to derive the approximate compute used to train the language models in as a simplifying assumption, we ignore the attention operation, as it typically uses less than of the total compute for the models we are analyzing. 

 calculations can be seen in table d.1 and are explained within the table caption. 

 

 model 

 total train 
 compute 
 (pf-days) 

 
 
 total train 
 compute 
 (flops) 

 
 
 params 
 (m) 

 
 
 training tokens 
 (billions) 

 
 
 flops 
 per param 
 per token 

 
 
 mult for 
 bwd pass 

 
 
 fwd-pass 
 flops per 
 active param 
 per token 

 
 
 frac of 
 params active 
 for each 
 token 

 

 t5-small 
 e 
 e 
 
 1, 
 3 
 3 
 1 

 
 
 t5-base 
 e 
 e 
 
 1, 
 3 
 3 
 1 

 
 
 t5-large 
 e 
 e 
 
 1, 
 3 
 3 
 1 

 
 
 t5-3b 
 e 
 e 
 3, 
 1, 
 3 
 3 
 1 

 
 
 t5- b 
 e 
 e 
 
 1, 
 3 
 3 
 1 

 
 
 bert-base 
 e 
 e 

 6 
 3 
 2 

 
 
 bert-large 
 e 
 e 

 6 
 3 
 2 

 
 
 roberta-base 
 e 
 e 
 
 2, 
 6 
 3 
 2 

 
 
 roberta-large 
 e 
 e 
 
 2, 
 6 
 3 
 2 

 
 
 gpt-3 small 
 e 
 e 

 6 
 3 
 2 

 
 
 gpt-3 medium 
 e 
 e 

 6 
 3 
 2 

 
 
 gpt-3 large 
 e 
 e 

 6 
 3 
 2 

 
 
 gpt-3 xl 
 e 
 e 
 1, 
 
 6 
 3 
 2 

 
 
 gpt-3 b 
 e 
 e 
 2, 
 
 6 
 3 
 2 

 
 
 gpt-3 b 
 e 
 e 
 6, 
 
 6 
 3 
 2 

 
 
 gpt-3 b 
 e 
 e 

 6 
 3 
 2 

 
 
 gpt-3 b 
 e 
 e 

 6 
 3 
 2 

 

 table d.1: 
starting from the right hand side and moving left, we begin with the number of training tokens that each model was trained with. next we note that since t5 uses an encoder-decoder model, only half of the parameters are active for each token during a forward or backwards pass. we then note that each token is involved in a single addition and a single multiply for each active parameter in the forward pass (ignoring attention). then we add a multiplier of 3x to account for the backwards pass (as computing both p a r a m s l o s s and a c t s l o s s use a similar amount of compute as the forwards pass. combining the previous two numbers, we get the total flops per parameter per token. we multiply this value by the total training tokens and the total parameters to yield the number of total flops used during training. we report both flops and petaflop s-day (each of which are e flops).

 

 appendix e human quality assessment of synthetic news articles 
 
 this appendix contains details on the experiments measuring human ability to distinguish gpt-3-generated synthetic news articles from real news articles. we first describe the experiments on the similar-to absent word news articles, and then describe the preliminary investigation of similar-to absent word news articles generated by gpt-3. 

 participants: we recruited unique participants to take part in 6 experiments. participants were excluded for failing an internet check question, leaving a total of participants: male, female, and 7 other. mean participant age was similar-to absent years old. all participants were recruited through positly, which maintains a whitelist of high-performing workers from mechanical turk. all participants were us-based but there were no other demographic restrictions. participants were paid for their participation, based on a task time estimate of minutes determined by pilot runs. in order to ensure that the sample of participants for each experiment quiz was unique, participants were not allowed to take part in an experiment more than once. 

 procedure and design: we arbitrarily selected news articles that appeared in newser.com in early we used the article titles and subtitles to produce outputs from the m, m, m, b, b, b, b, and b (gpt-3) parameter language models. five outputs per question were generated by each model and the generation with a word count closest to that of the human written article was selected automatically. this was to minimize the effect that completion length might have on participants judgments. the same output procedure for each model with the exception of the removal of the intentionally bad control model, as described in the main text. 

 in each experiment, half of the participants were randomly assigned to quiz a and half were randomly assigned to quiz b. each quiz consisted of articles: half ( - ) were human written and half ( - ) were model generated: the articles with human written completions in quiz a had model generated completions in quiz b and vice versa. the order of quiz question was shuffled for each participant. participants could leave comments and were asked to indicate if they had seen the articles before. participants were instructed not to look up the articles or their content during the quiz and at the end of the quiz were asked if they had looked anything up during the quiz. 

 

 model 

 participants 
 recruited 

 
 
 participants 
 excluded 

 
 
 genders 
 (m:f:other) 

 
 
 mean 
 age 

 
 
 average 
 word count 
 (human:model) 

 

 
 control 
 
 7 
 :0 

 
 
 gpt-3 small 
 
 7 
 :1 

 
 
 gpt-3 medium 
 
 7 
 :2 

 
 
 gpt-3 large 

 :2 

 
 
 gpt-3 xl 

 :1 

 
 
 gpt-3 b 

 :0 

 
 
 gpt-3 b 
 
 5 
 :2 

 
 
 gpt-3 b 

 :2 

 
 
 gpt-3 b 
 
 9 
 :0 

 

 table e.1: participant details and article lengths for each experiment to evaluate human detection of similar-to absent word model generated news articles. participants were excluded due to internet check fails. 

 statistical tests: to compare means on the different runs, we performed a two-sample t-test for independent groups for each model against the control. this was implemented in python using the scipy.stats.ttest ind function. when plotting a regression line in the graph of average participant accuracy vs model size, we fit a power law of the form a x b superscript ax -b the confidence intervals were estimated from the t-distribution of the sample mean. 

 figure e.1: participants spend more time trying to identify whether each news article is machine generated as model size increases. duration on the control model is indicated with the dashed line. line of best fit is a linear model on a log scale with confidence intervals. 

 duration statistics in the main text, we discussed the finding that the ability of human participants to distinguish model and human generated news articles decreases as our models become larger. we have also found that the average time spent for a given set of questions increases as the model size increases, as shown in figure e.1 lower accuracy scores despite increased time investment from participants supports the finding that larger models generate harder-to-distinguish news articles. 

 preliminary investigation of similar-to absent word articles: we recruited unique us-based participants to take part in 2 experiments through positly (details are given in table e.2 ). we randomly selected reuters world news articles from late and created a context for gpt-3 b that consisted of a single reuters article not in this set of we then used the article titles and reuters locations to generate completions from gpt-3 b and the m control model from the previous experiments. these were used to create two -question quizzes per model, each consisting of half human written and half model generated articles. comprehension questions were added and articles were shown to participants in 3 stages at second intervals to encourage closer reading. participants were paid for this task. model generation selection methods, exclusion criteria, and statistical tests mirror those of the previous experiments. 

 

 model 

 participants 
 recruited 

 
 
 participants 
 excluded 

 
 
 genders 
 (m:f:other) 

 
 
 mean 
 age 

 
 
 average 
 word count 
 (human:model) 

 

 
 control 

 :0 

 
 
 gpt-3 b 

 :0 

 

 table e.2: participant details and article lengths for the experiments investigating human detection of similar-to absent word model generated news articles. participants were excluded due to internet check fails. 

 
 
 appendix f additional samples from gpt-3 
 
 gpt-3 adapts well to many tasks other than the ones explored in the main body of the paper. as an example, in figure f.1 we show four uncurated samples from a prompt suggesting that the model write a poem, with a given title, in the style of wallace stevens. we first experimented with a few prompts, then generated four samples with no additional editing or selection (sampling at temperature 1 1 1 using nucleus sampling with p p ). completions were truncated when the model began to write a new title and author heading, or broke into prose commentary. 

 

 
 context 
 
 the city 

 
 by c. p. cavafy 

 
 translated by edmund keeley 

 
 poem text omitted 

 
 some trees 

 
 john ashbery 

 
 poem text omitted 

 
 shadows on the way 

 
 wallace stevens 

 -------- generated poem 1 -------- 
 -------- generated poem 3 -------- 

 i must have shadows on the way 
 the sun was all we had. now, in the shade 

 if i am to walk i must have 
 all is changed. the mind must dwell on those 

 each step taken slowly and alone 
 white fields, that to its eyes were always old; 

 to have it ready made 
 those ancient gleams, convoluting 

 
 the way they lay among the huge roots, 

 and i must think in lines of grey 
 the great dark tomes of reverie, 

 to have dim thoughts to be my guide 
 the plumed labyrinth of the sea. 

 must look on blue and green 

 
 and never let my eye forget 
 when our own breath gonne faint and fade 

 that color is my friend 
 up the long stairway of the dead 

 and purple must surround me too 
 we shall remember well 

 
 the blindness of the light, the whiteness 

 the yellow of the sun is no more 
 of that white land. the footsteps, and 

 intrusive than the bluish snow 
 the grasses in that light, and in the shade 

 that falls on all of us. i must have 
 the menacing life. 

 grey thoughts and blue thoughts walk with me 

 
 if i am to go away at all. 
 we played, too, once, in the warmest rooms. 

 
 to one content, there is one content 

 -------- generated poem 2 -------- 
 for all mankind. the forest glades 

 
 are all the more for being in fable, 

 there is a way in the world. 
 and wood and town in legend shadowed- 

 that way a man may live in a small town 
 once more to return. the one content 

 his lifetime and see no man come, 
 has in it every happiness, more brave 

 never the stir of men about a market, 
 for being purposeless; and so 

 never the bobbing of covered carts, 
 those island gardens, deep in the mind, 

 never the creak passed on the stair 
 make of remoteness familiarity 

 closing some other life; an old man 
 and of the unspoken name a friend. 

 can prosper in that town, can prosper 

 
 when his store is seen to close, his wife 
 -------- generated poem 4 -------- 

 fades in his house, and the world shouts in vain 

 
 that no one comes to hear him 
 nobody will come to this place. it is a road that leads nowhere. 

 where his small bell tolls. 
 the solitude is deep. the mountains are high. 

 in that small town 
 but they are desolate, and they turn the traveler s face 

 everything is known. 
 towards the north. all the sounds of the world are far away. 

 the ways of the young men are known, 
 when the wind rises above the trees, 

 and the ways of the young women 
 the boughs bow to the ground. 

 as they walk to the spring; 
 even the birds that inhabit the tangle of weeds 

 the rumors are all known, 
 that is the roadside cover, are silent. one listens, 

 the quarrels, the hurt, the envy 
 but hears no roar of the forest. one is alone. 

 of the men and the women. 
 one will be taken. 

 till a day comes 
 one will be taken. 

 that way out of the world 
 there is no utterance, there is no conversation, 

 that leads to a wood. 
 but one is uneasy all the same. 

 young, the young man 
 there is a thin blue mist, 

 walks, a lover now, 
 a darkness rising like smoke, 

 knows the streets as they are and is of them. 
 and within that darkness 

 
 a possession of the heart. 

 comes to the wood. 
 one will be taken. it was here, and it will be here again- 

 
 here, under this sky empty and full of light. 

 there, in the wood, among trees, 

 
 he sees shadows on the way, hears voices, 

 
 hears the wind and the rustling of leaves; 

 
 through an open glade 

 
 he sees a shape and the shape hears: 

 
 it waits as he waits, 

 
 waits as the shadows wait, 

 
 as the voices wait; 

 
 shadows on the way, voices in the wind. 

 
 
 figure f.1: four uncurated completions from a context suggesting the model compose a poem in the style of wallace stevens with the title shadows on the way . 

 

 
 appendix g details of task phrasing and specifications 
 
 the following figures illustrate the formatting and phrasing of all the tasks included in the paper. all data comes from the ground truth datasets in this section, and no samples from gpt-3 are included here. 

 

 
 context 

 
 article: 

 

 
 
 informal conversation is an important part of any business relationship.before you start a discussion,however,make sure you understand which topics are suitable and which are considered taboo in a particular culture. latin americans enjoy sharing information about their local history, art and customs.you may expect questions about your family,and be sure to show pictures of your children.you may feel free to ask similar questions of your latin american friends.the french think of conversation as an art form,and they enjoy the value of lively discussions as well as disagreements. for them,arguments can be interesting and they can cover pretty much or any topic ---- as long as they occur in are respectful and intelligent manner. 

 

 
 
 in the united states,business people like to discuss a wide range of topics,including opinions about work,family,hobbies,and politics. in japan,china,and korea,however,people are much more private.they do not share much about their thoughts,feelings,or emotions because they feel that doing so might take away from the harmonious business relationship they re trying to build.middle easterners are also private about their personal lives and family matters.it is considered rude,for example,to ask a businessman from saudi arabia about his wife or children. 

 

 
 
 as a general rule,it s best not to talk about politics or religion with your business friends.this can get you into trouble,even in the united states,where people hold different religious views.in addition,discussing one s salary is usually considered unsuitable.sports is typically a friendly subject in most parts of the world,although be careful not to criticize national sport.instead,be friendly and praise your host s team. 

 

 
 
 q: what shouldn t you do when talking about sports with colleagues from another country? 

 

 
 
 a: criticizing the sports of your colleagues country. 

 

 
 
 q: which is typically a friendly topic in most places according to the author? 

 

 
 
 a: sports. 

 

 
 
 q: why are people from asia more private in their conversation with others? 

 

 
 
 a: they don t want to have their good relationship with others harmed by informal conversation. 

 

 
 
 q: the author considers politics and religion 

 

 
 
 a: 

 

 correct answer 

 
 taboo 

 

 incorrect answer 

 
 cheerful topics 

 

 incorrect answer 

 
 rude topics 

 

 incorrect answer 

 
 topics that can never be talked about 

 

 figure g.1: formatted dataset example for race-h. when predicting, we normalize by the unconditional probability of each answer as described in 2 

 

 
 context 

 
 anli 2: anli 2: the gold coast hotel casino is a hotel and casino located in paradise, nevada. this locals casino is owned and operated by boyd gaming. the gold coast is located one mile ( km similar-to absent km ) west of the las vegas strip on west flamingo road. it is located across the street from the palms casino resort and the rio all suite hotel and casino. 

 

 
 
 question: the gold coast is a budget-friendly casino. true, false, or neither? 

 

 correct answer 

 
 neither 

 

 incorrect answer 

 
 true 

 

 incorrect answer 

 
 false 

 

 figure g.2: formatted dataset example for anli r2 

 

 
 context 

 
 article: 

 

 
 
 mrs. smith is an unusual teacher. once she told each student to bring along a few potatoes in plastic bag. on each potato the students had to write a name of a person that they hated and the next day, every child brought some potatoes. some had two potatoes;some three;some up to five. 

 

 
 
 mrs. smith then told the children to carry the bags everywhere they went, even to the toilet, for two weeks. as day after day passed, the children started to complain about the awful smell of the rotten potatoes. 

 

 
 
 those children who brought five potatoes began to feel the weight trouble of the bags. after two weeks, the children were happy to hear that the game was finally ended. mrs. smith asked,"how did you feel while carrying the potatoes for two weeks?" the children started complaining about the trouble loudly. 

 

 
 
 then mrs. smith told them why she asked them to play the game. she said,"this is exactly the situation when you carry your hatred for somebody inside your heart. the terrible smell of the hatred will pollute your heart and you will carry something unnecessary with you all the time. if you cannot stand the smell of the rotten potatoes for just two weeks, can you imagine how heavy it would be to have the hatred in your heart for your lifetime? so throw away any hatred from your heart, and you ll be really happy." 

 

 
 
 q: which of the following is true according to the passage? 

 

 
 
 a: if a kid hated four people,he or she had to carry four potatoes. 

 

 
 
 q: we can learn from the passage that we should 

 

 
 
 a: throw away the hatred inside 

 

 
 
 q: the children complained about besides the weight trouble. 

 

 
 
 a: the smell 

 

 
 
 q: mrs.smith asked her students to write on the potatoes. 

 

 
 
 a: 

 

 correct answer 

 
 names 

 

 incorrect answer 

 
 numbers 

 

 incorrect answer 

 
 time 

 

 incorrect answer 

 
 places 

 

 figure g.3: formatted dataset example for race-m. when predicting, we normalize by the unconditional probability of each answer as described in 2 

 

 
 context 

 
 how to apply sealant to wood. 

 

 
 
 correct answer 

 
 using a brush, brush on sealant onto wood until it is fully saturated with the sealant. 

 

 incorrect answer 

 
 using a brush, drip on sealant onto wood until it is fully saturated with the sealant. 

 

 figure g.4: formatted dataset example for piqa 

 

 
 context 

 
 my body cast a shadow over the grass because 

 

 
 
 correct answer 

 
 the sun was rising. 

 

 incorrect answer 

 
 the grass was cut. 

 

 figure g.5: formatted dataset example for copa 

 

 
 context 

 
 (cnn) yuval rabin, whose father, yitzhak rabin, was assassinated while serving as prime minister of israel, criticized donald trump for appealing to "second amendment people" in a speech and warned that the words that politicians use can incite violence and undermine democracy. "trump s words are an incitement to the type of political violence that touched me personally," rabin wrote in usatoday. he said that trump s appeal to "second amendment people" to stop hillary clinton -- comments that were criticized as a call for violence against clinton, something trump denied -- "were a new level of ugliness in an ugly campaign season." 

 

 
 
 - the son of a former israeli prime minister who was assassinated wrote an op ed about the consequence of violent political rhetoric. 

 

 
 
 - warns of "parallels" between israel of the s and the u.s. today. 

 

 correct answer 

 
 - referencing his father, who was shot and killed by an extremist amid political tension in israel in rabin condemned donald trump s aggressive rhetoric. 

 

 correct answer 

 
 - referencing his father, who was shot and killed by an extremist amid political tension in israel in rabin condemned trump s aggressive rhetoric. 

 

 incorrect answer 

 
 - referencing his father, who was shot and killed by an extremist amid political tension in israel in rabin condemned hillary clinton s aggressive rhetoric. 

 

 incorrect answer 

 
 - referencing his father, who was shot and killed by an extremist amid political tension in israel in rabin condemned u.s. s aggressive rhetoric. 

 

 incorrect answer 

 
 - referencing his father, who was shot and killed by an extremist amid political tension in israel in rabin condemned yitzhak rabin s aggressive rhetoric. 

 

 figure g.6: formatted dataset example for record. we consider the context above to be a single problem because this is how the task is presented in the record dataset and scored in the record evaluation script. 

 

 
 context 

 
 anli 1: anli 1: fulton james macgregor msp is a scottish politician who is a scottish national party (snp) member of scottish parliament for the constituency of coatbridge and chryston. macgregor is currently parliamentary liaison officer to shona robison, cabinet secretary for health sport. he also serves on the justice and education skills committees in the scottish parliament. 

 

 
 
 question: fulton james macgregor is a scottish politican who is a liaison officer to shona robison who he swears is his best friend. true, false, or neither? 

 

 correct answer 

 
 neither 

 

 incorrect answer 

 
 true 

 

 incorrect answer 

 
 false 

 

 figure g.7: formatted dataset example for anli r1 

 

 
 context 

 
 organisms require energy in order to do what? 

 

 
 
 correct answer 

 
 mature and develop. 

 

 incorrect answer 

 
 rest soundly. 

 

 incorrect answer 

 
 absorb light. 

 

 incorrect answer 

 
 take in nutrients. 

 

 figure g.8: formatted dataset example for openbookqa. when predicting, we normalize by the unconditional probability of each answer as described in 2 

 

 
 context 

 
 making a cake: several cake pops are shown on a display. a woman and girl are shown making the cake pops in a kitchen. they 

 

 
 
 correct answer 

 
 bake them, then frost and decorate. 

 

 incorrect answer 

 
 taste them as they place them on plates. 

 

 incorrect answer 

 
 put the frosting on the cake as they pan it. 

 

 incorrect answer 

 
 come out and begin decorating the cake as well. 

 

 figure g.9: formatted dataset example for hellaswag 

 

 
 context 

 
 anli 3: anli 3: we shut the loophole which has american workers actually subsidizing the loss of their own job. they just passed an expansion of that loophole in the last few days: billion of giveaways, including favors to the oil and gas industry and the people importing ceiling fans from china. 

 

 
 
 question: the loophole is now gone true, false, or neither? 

 

 correct answer 

 
 false 

 

 incorrect answer 

 
 true 

 

 incorrect answer 

 
 neither 

 

 figure g. formatted dataset example for anli r3 

 

 
 context 

 
 question: george wants to warm his hands quickly by rubbing them. which skin surface will produce the most heat? 

 

 
 
 answer: 

 

 correct answer 

 
 dry palms 

 

 incorrect answer 

 
 wet palms 

 

 incorrect answer 

 
 palms covered with oil 

 

 incorrect answer 

 
 palms covered with lotion 

 

 figure g. formatted dataset example for arc (challenge). when predicting, we normalize by the unconditional probability of each answer as described in 2 

 

 
 context 

 
 lull is to trust as 

 

 
 
 correct answer 

 
 cajole is to compliance 

 

 incorrect answer 

 
 balk is to fortitude 

 

 incorrect answer 

 
 betray is to loyalty 

 

 incorrect answer 

 
 hinder is to destination 

 

 incorrect answer 

 
 soothe is to passion 

 

 figure g. formatted dataset example for sat analogies 

 

 
 correct context 

 
 grace was happy to trade me her sweater for my jacket. she thinks the sweater 

 

 incorrect context 

 
 grace was happy to trade me her sweater for my jacket. she thinks the jacket 

 

 target completion 

 
 looks dowdy on her. 

 

 figure g. formatted dataset example for winograd. the partial evaluation method we use compares the probability of the completion given a correct and incorrect context. 

 

 
 correct context 

 
 johnny likes fruits more than vegetables in his new keto diet because the fruits 

 

 incorrect context 

 
 johnny likes fruits more than vegetables in his new keto diet because the vegetables 

 

 target completion 

 
 are saccharine. 

 

 figure g. formatted dataset example for winogrande. the partial evaluation method we use compares the probability of the completion given a correct and incorrect context. 

 

 
 context 

 
 reading comprehension answer key 

 

 
 
 while this process moved along, diplomacy continued its rounds. direct pressure on the taliban had proved unsuccessful. as one nsc staff note put it, "under the taliban, afghanistan is not so much a state sponsor of terrorism as it is a state sponsored by terrorists." in early the united states began a high-level effort to persuade pakistan to use its influence over the taliban. in january assistant secretary of state karl inderfurth and the state department s counterterrorism coordinator, michael sheehan, met with general musharraf in islamabad, dangling before him the possibility of a presidential visit in march as a reward for pakistani cooperation. such a visit was coveted by musharraf, partly as a sign of his government s legitimacy. he told the two envoys that he would meet with mullah omar and press him on bin laden. they left, however, reporting to washington that pakistan was unlikely in fact to do anything," given what it sees as the benefits of taliban control of afghanistan." president clinton was scheduled to travel to india. the state department felt that he should not visit india without also visiting pakistan. the secret service and the cia, however, warned in the strongest terms that visiting pakistan would risk the president s life. counterterrorism officials also argued that pakistan had not done enough to merit a presidential visit. but president clinton insisted on including pakistan in the itinerary for his trip to south asia. his one-day stopover on march was the first time a u.s. president had been there since at his meeting with musharraf and others, president clinton concentrated on tensions between pakistan and india and the dangers of nuclear proliferation, but also discussed bin laden. president clinton told us that when he pulled musharraf aside for a brief, one-on-one meeting, he pleaded with the general for help regarding bin laden." i offered him the moon when i went to see him, in terms of better relations with the united states, if he d help us get bin laden and deal with another issue or two." the u.s. effort continued. 

 

 
 
 who did the state department feel should visit both india and pakistan? 

 

 correct answer 

 
 - false bin laden 

 

 incorrect answer 

 
 - true bin laden 

 

 figure g. formatted dataset example for multirc. there are three levels within multirc: (1) the passage, (2) the questions, and (3) the answers. during evaluation, accuracy is determined at the per-question level, with a question being considered correct if and only if all the answers within the question are labeled correctly. for this reason, we use k k to refer to the number of questions shown within the context. 

 

 
 context 

 
 question: which factor will most likely cause a person to develop a fever? 

 

 
 
 answer: 

 

 correct answer 

 
 a bacterial population in the bloodstream 

 

 incorrect answer 

 
 a leg muscle relaxing after exercise 

 

 incorrect answer 

 
 several viral particles on the skin 

 

 incorrect answer 

 
 carbohydrates being digested in the stomach 

 

 figure g. formatted dataset example for arc (easy). when predicting, we normalize by the unconditional probability of each answer as described in 2 

 

 
 
 context 

 
 bob went to the gas station to fill up his car. his tank was completely empty and so was his wallet. the cashier offered to pay for his gas if he came back later to pay. bob felt grateful as he drove home. 

 

 
 
 correct answer 

 
 bob believed that there were good people in the world. 

 

 incorrect answer 

 
 bob contemplated how unfriendly the world was. 

 

 figure g. formatted dataset example for storycloze 

 

 
 context 

 
 helsinki is the capital and largest city of finland. it is in the region of uusimaa, in southern finland, on the shore of the gulf of finland. helsinki has a population of an urban population of and a metropolitan population of over million, making it the most populous municipality and urban area in finland. helsinki is some north of tallinn, estonia, east of stockholm, sweden, and west of saint petersburg, russia. helsinki has close historical connections with these three cities. 

 

 
 
 the helsinki metropolitan area includes the urban core of helsinki, espoo, vantaa, kauniainen, and surrounding commuter towns. it is the world s northernmost metro area of over one million people, and the city is the northernmost capital of an eu member state. the helsinki metropolitan area is the third largest metropolitan area in the nordic countries after stockholm and copenhagen, and the city of helsinki is the third largest after stockholm and oslo. helsinki is finland s major political, educational, financial, cultural, and research center as well as one of northern europe s major cities. approximately of foreign companies that operate in finland have settled in the helsinki region. the nearby municipality of vantaa is the location of helsinki airport, with frequent service to various destinations in europe and asia. 

 

 
 
 q: what is the most populous municipality in finland? 

 

 
 
 a: helsinki 

 

 
 
 q: how many people live there? 

 

 
 
 a: million in the metropolitan area 

 

 
 
 q: what percent of the foreign companies that operate in finland are in helsinki? 

 

 
 
 a: 

 

 
 
 q: what towns are a part of the metropolitan area? 

 

 
 
 a: 

 

 target completion 

 
 helsinki, espoo, vantaa, kauniainen, and surrounding commuter towns 

 

 figure g. formatted dataset example for coqa 

 

 
 context 

 
 please unscramble the letters into a word, and write that word: 

 

 
 
 asinoc 

 

 target completion 

 
 casino 

 

 figure g. formatted dataset example for cycled letters 

 

 
 context 

 
 passage: saint jean de br beuf was a french jesuit missionary who travelled to new france in there he worked primarily with the huron for the rest of his life, except for a few years in france from to he learned their language and culture, writing extensively about each to aid other missionaries. in br beuf and another missionary were captured when an iroquois raid took over a huron village together with huron captives, the missionaries were ritually tortured and killed on march br beuf was beatified in and among eight jesuit missionaries canonized as saints in the roman catholic church in 

 

 
 
 question: how many years did saint jean de br beuf stay in new france before he went back to france for a few years? 

 

 
 
 answer: 

 

 target completion 

 
 4 

 

 figure g. formatted dataset example for drop 

 

 
 context 

 
 fill in blank: 

 

 
 
 she held the torch in front of her. 

 

 
 
 she caught her breath. 

 

 
 
 "chris? there s a step." 

 

 
 
 "what?" 

 

 
 
 "a step. cut in the rock. about fifty feet ahead." she moved faster. they both moved faster. "in fact," she said, raising the torch higher, "there s more than a - 

 

 target completion 

 
 step 

 

 figure g. formatted dataset example for lambada 

 

 
 context 

 
 please unscramble the letters into a word, and write that word: 

 

 
 
 skicts 

 

 target completion 

 
 sticks 

 

 figure g. formatted dataset example for anagrams 1 (a1) 

 

 
 context 

 
 please unscramble the letters into a word, and write that word: 

 

 
 
 volwskagen 

 

 target completion 

 
 volkswagen 

 

 figure g. formatted dataset example for anagrams 2 

 

 
 context 

 
 q: who played tess on touched by an angel? 

 

 
 
 a: 

 

 target completion 

 
 delloreese patricia early (july 6, november ), known professionally as della reese 

 

 figure g. formatted dataset example for natural questions 

 

 
 context 

 
 title: william perry (american football) - professional career 

 

 
 
 paragraph: in he was selected in the first round of the nfl draft by the chicago bears; he had been hand-picked by coach mike ditka. however, defensive coordinator buddy ryan, who had a highly acrimonious relationship with ditka, called perry a "wasted draft-pick". perry soon became a pawn in the political power struggle between ditka and ryan. perry s "refrigerator" nickname followed him into the nfl and he quickly became a favorite of the chicago bears fans. teammates called him "biscuit," as in "one biscuit shy of pounds." while ryan refused to play perry, ditka decided to use perry as a fullback when the team was near the opponents goal line or in fourth and short situations, either as a ball carrier or a lead blocker for star running back walter payton. ditka stated the inspiration for using perry as a fullback came to him during five-yard sprint exercises. during his rookie season, perry rushed for two touchdowns and caught a pass for one. perry even had the opportunity to run the ball during super bowl xx, as a nod to his popularity and contributions to the team s success. the first time he got the ball, he was tackled for a one-yard loss while attempting to throw his first nfl pass on a halfback option play. the second time he got the ball, he scored a touchdown (running over patriots linebacker larry mcgrew in the process). about halfway through his rookie season, ryan finally began to play perry, who soon proved that he was a capable defensive lineman. his super bowl ring size is the largest of any professional football player in the history of the event. his ring size is while the ring size for the average adult male is between and perry went on to play for ten years in the nfl, retiring after the season. in his ten years as a pro, he regularly struggled with his weight, which hampered his performance at times. he played in games, recording sacks and five fumble recoveries, which he returned for a total of yards. in his offensive career he ran five yards for two touchdowns, and had one reception for another touchdown. perry later attempted a comeback, playing an unremarkable season with the london monarchs of the world league of american football (later nfl europa). 

 

 
 
 q: what team did he play for? 

 

 
 
 a: 

 

 target completion 

 
 the chicago bears 

 

 figure g. formatted dataset example for quac 

 

 
 context 

 
 please unscramble the letters into a word, and write that word: 

 

 
 
 r e!c.i p r o.c a l 

 

 target completion 

 
 reciprocal 

 

 figure g. formatted dataset example for symbol insertion 

 

 
 context 

 
 please unscramble the letters into a word, and write that word: 

 

 
 
 taefed 

 

 target completion 

 
 defeat 

 

 figure g. formatted dataset example for reversed words 

 

 
 context 

 
 title: the blitz 

 

 
 
 background: from the german point of view, march saw an improvement. the luftwaffe flew 4, sorties that month, including major and three heavy attacks. the electronic war intensified but the luftwaffe flew major inland missions only on moonlit nights. ports were easier to find and made better targets. to confuse the british, radio silence was observed until the bombs fell. x- and y-ger t beams were placed over false targets and switched only at the last minute. rapid frequency changes were introduced for x-ger t, whose wider band of frequencies and greater tactical flexibility ensured it remained effective at a time when british selective jamming was degrading the effectiveness of y-ger t. 

 

 
 
 q: how many sorties were flown in march ? 

 

 
 
 a: 4, 

 

 
 
 q: when did the luftwaffe fly inland missions? 

 

 
 
 a: 

 

 target completion 

 
 only on moonlit nights 

 

 figure g. formatted dataset example for squadv2 

 

 
 context 

 
 normal force -- in a simple case such as an object resting upon a table, the normal force on the object is equal but in opposite direction to the gravitational force applied on the object (or the weight of the object), that is, n m g ( n mg), where m is mass, and g is the gravitational field strength (about m s on earth). the normal force here represents the force applied by the table against the object that prevents it from sinking through the table and requires that the table is sturdy enough to deliver this normal force without breaking. however, it is easy to assume that the normal force and weight are action-reaction force pairs (a common mistake). in this case, the normal force and weight need to be equal in magnitude to explain why there is no upward acceleration of the object. for example, a ball that bounces upwards accelerates upwards because the normal force acting on the ball is larger in magnitude than the weight of the ball. 

 

 
 
 question: is the normal force equal to the force of gravity? 

 

 
 
 answer: 

 

 target completion 

 
 yes 

 

 figure g. formatted dataset example for boolq 

 

 
 context 

 
 the trend toward lower rents may seem surprising given that some communities in new york are bemoaning the loss of favorite local businesses to high rents. but, despite the recent softening, for many of these retailers there s still been too big a jump from the rental rates of the late s, when their leases were signed. certainly, the recent drop in prices doesn t mean manhattan comes cheap. 

 

 
 
 question: manhattan comes cheap. true, false, or neither? 

 

 
 
 answer: 

 

 target completion 

 
 false 

 

 figure g. formatted dataset example for cb 

 

 
 context 

 
 the bet, which won him dinner for four, was regarding the existence and mass of the top quark, an elementary particle discovered in 

 

 
 
 question: the top quark is the last of six flavors of quarks predicted by the standard model theory of particle physics. true or false? 

 

 
 
 answer: 

 

 target completion 

 
 false 

 

 figure g. formatted dataset example for rte 

 

 
 context 

 
 an outfitter provided everything needed for the safari. 

 

 
 
 before his first walking holiday, he went to a specialist outfitter to buy some boots. 

 

 
 
 question: is the word outfitter used in the same way in the two sentences above? 

 

 
 
 answer: 

 

 target completion 

 
 no 

 

 figure g. formatted dataset example for wic 

 

 
 context 

 
 final exam with answer key 

 

 
 
 instructions: please carefully read the following passages. for each passage, you must identify which noun the pronoun marked in bold refers to. 

 

 

 

 

 
 passage: mr. moncrieff visited chester s luxurious new york apartment, thinking that it belonged to his son edward. the result was that mr. moncrieff has decided to cancel edward s allowance on the ground that he no longer requires his financial support. 

 

 
 
 question: in the passage above, what does the pronoun " his " refer to? 

 

 
 
 answer: 

 

 target completion 

 
 mr. moncrieff 

 

 figure g. formatted dataset example for wsc 

 

 
 context 

 
 q: nude descending a staircase is perhaps the most famous painting by which th century artist? 

 

 
 
 a: 

 

 target completion 

 
 marcel duchamp 

 

 target completion 

 
 r mutt 

 

 target completion 

 
 duchamp 

 

 target completion 

 
 marcel duchamp 

 

 target completion 

 
 r.mutt 

 

 target completion 

 
 marcel duchamp 

 

 target completion 

 
 henri-robert-marcel duchamp 

 

 target completion 

 
 marcel du champ 

 

 target completion 

 
 henri robert marcel duchamp 

 

 target completion 

 
 duchampian 

 

 target completion 

 
 duchamp 

 

 target completion 

 
 duchampian 

 

 target completion 

 
 marcel du champ 

 

 target completion 

 
 marcel duchamp 

 

 target completion 

 
 marcel duchamp 

 

 figure g. formatted dataset example for triviaqa. triviaqa allows for multiple valid completions. 

 

 
 context 

 
 q: what school did burne hogarth establish? 

 

 
 
 a: 

 

 target completion 

 
 school of visual arts 

 

 figure g. formatted dataset example for webqa 

 

 
 context 

 
 keinesfalls d rfen diese f r den kommerziellen gebrauch verwendet werden. 

 

 target completion 

 
 in no case may they be used for commercial purposes. 

 

 figure g. formatted dataset example for de en. this is the format for one- and few-shot learning, for this and other langauge tasks, the format for zero-shot learning is q: what is the language translation of sentence a: translation . 

 

 
 context 

 
 in no case may they be used for commercial purposes. 

 

 target completion 

 
 keinesfalls d rfen diese f r den kommerziellen gebrauch verwendet werden. 

 

 figure g. formatted dataset example for en de 

 

 
 context 

 
 analysis of instar distributions of larval i. verticalis collected from a series of ponds also indicated that males were in more advanced instars than females. 

 

 target completion 

 
 l analyse de la distribution de fr quence des stades larvaires d i. verticalis dans une s rie d tangs a galement d montr que les larves m les taient des stades plus avanc s que les larves femelles. 

 

 figure g. formatted dataset example for en fr 

 

 
 context 

 
 l analyse de la distribution de fr quence des stades larvaires d i. verticalis dans une s rie d tangs a galement d montr que les larves m les taient des stades plus avanc s que les larves femelles. 

 

 target completion 

 
 analysis of instar distributions of larval i. verticalis collected from a series of ponds also indicated that males were in more advanced instars than females. 

 

 figure g. formatted dataset example for fr en 

 

 
 context 

 
 the truth is that you want, at any price, and against the wishes of the peoples of europe, to continue the negotiations for turkey s accession to the european union, despite turkey s continuing refusal to recognise cyprus and despite the fact that the democratic reforms are at a standstill. 

 

 target completion 

 
 adev rul este c v dori i, cu orice pre i mpotriva dorin ei europenilor, s continua i negocierile de aderare a turciei la uniunea european , n ciuda refuzului continuu al turciei de a recunoa te ciprul i n ciuda faptului c reformele democratice au ajuns ntr-un punct mort. 

 

 figure g. formatted dataset example for en ro 

 

 
 context 

 
 adev rul este c v dori i, cu orice pre i mpotriva dorin ei europenilor, s continua i negocierile de aderare a turciei la uniunea european , n ciuda refuzului continuu al turciei de a recunoa te ciprul i n ciuda faptului c reformele democratice au ajuns ntr-un punct mort. 

 

 target completion 

 
 the truth is that you want, at any price, and against the wishes of the peoples of europe, to continue the negotiations for turkey s accession to the european union, despite turkey s continuing refusal to recognise cyprus and despite the fact that the democratic reforms are at a standstill. 

 

 figure g. formatted dataset example for ro en 

 

 
 context 

 
 q: what is (2 4) 6? 

 

 
 
 a: 

 

 target completion 

 

 

 
 figure g. formatted dataset example for arithmetic 1dc 

 

 
 context 

 
 q: what is minus ? 

 

 
 
 a: 

 

 target completion 

 
 3 

 

 figure g. formatted dataset example for arithmetic 2d- 

 

 
 context 

 
 q: what is plus ? 

 

 
 
 a: 

 

 target completion 

 

 

 
 figure g. formatted dataset example for arithmetic 2d 

 

 
 context 

 
 q: what is times ? 

 

 
 
 a: 

 

 target completion 

 

 

 
 figure g. formatted dataset example for arithmetic 2dx 

 

 
 context 

 
 q: what is minus ? 

 

 
 
 a: 

 

 target completion 

 

 

 
 figure g. formatted dataset example for arithmetic 3d- 

 

 
 context 

 
 q: what is plus ? 

 

 
 
 a: 

 

 target completion 

 

 

 
 figure g. formatted dataset example for arithmetic 3d 

 

 
 context 

 
 q: what is minus ? 

 

 
 
 a: 

 

 target completion 

 

 

 
 figure g. formatted dataset example for arithmetic 4d- 

 

 
 context 

 
 q: what is plus ? 

 

 
 
 a: 

 

 target completion 

 

 

 
 figure g. formatted dataset example for arithmetic 4d 

 

 
 context 

 
 q: what is minus ? 

 

 
 
 a: 

 

 target completion 

 
 - 

 

 figure g. formatted dataset example for arithmetic 5d - 

 

 
 context 

 
 q: what is plus ? 

 

 
 
 a: 

 

 target completion 

 

 

 
 figure g. formatted dataset example for arithmetic 5d 

 

 
 appendix h results on all tasks for all model sizes 

 

 

 
 zero-shot 
 one-shot 
 few-shot 

 
 name 
 metric 
 split 

 fine-tune 
 sota 

 k 
 small 
 med 
 large 
 xl 
 b 
 b 
 b 
 b 
 small 
 med 
 large 
 xl 
 b 
 b 
 b 
 b 
 small 
 med 
 large 
 xl 
 b 
 b 
 b 
 b 

 b 
 (test server) 

 
 
 hellaswag 
 acc 
 dev 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 lambada 
 acc 
 test 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 lambada 
 ppl 
 test 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 storycloze 
 acc 
 test 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 nqs 
 acc 
 test 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 triviaqa 
 acc 
 dev 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 webqs 
 acc 
 test 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 ro en 
 
 bleu-mb 
 test 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 ro en 
 
 bleu-sb 
 test 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 en ro 
 
 bleu-mb 
 test 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 en ro 
 
 bleu-sb 
 test 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 fr en 
 
 bleu-mb 
 test 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 fr en 
 
 bleu-sb 
 test 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 en fr 
 
 bleu-mb 
 test 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 en fr 
 
 bleu-sb 
 test 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 de en 
 
 bleu-mb 
 test 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 de en 
 
 bleu-sb 
 test 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 en de 
 
 bleu-mb 
 test 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 en de 
 
 bleu-sb 
 test 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 winograd 
 acc 
 test 
 
 7 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 winogrande 
 acc 
 dev 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 piqa 
 acc 
 dev 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 arc (challenge) 
 acc 
 test 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 arc (easy) 
 acc 
 test 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 openbookqa 
 acc 
 test 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 quac 
 f1 
 dev 
 
 5 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 race-h 
 acc 
 test 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 race-m 
 acc 
 test 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 squadv2 
 em 
 dev 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 squadv2 
 f1 
 dev 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 coqa 
 f1 
 dev 
 
 5 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 drop 
 f1 
 dev 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 boolq 
 acc 
 dev 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 cb 
 acc 
 dev 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 cb 
 f1 
 dev 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 copa 
 acc 
 dev 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 rte 
 acc 
 dev 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 wic 
 acc 
 dev 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 wsc 
 acc 
 dev 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 multirc 
 acc 
 dev 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 multirc 
 f1a 
 dev 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 record 
 acc 
 dev 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 record 
 f1 
 dev 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 superglue 
 average 
 dev 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 anli r1 
 acc 
 test 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 anli r2 
 acc 
 test 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 anli r3 
 acc 
 test 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 2d 
 acc 
 n a 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 2d- 
 acc 
 n a 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 3d 
 acc 
 n a 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 3d- 
 acc 
 n a 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 4d 
 acc 
 n a 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 4d- 
 acc 
 n a 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 5d 
 acc 
 n a 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 5d- 
 acc 
 n a 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 2dx 
 acc 
 n a 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 1dc 
 acc 
 n a 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 cycled letters 
 acc 
 n a 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 anagrams 1 
 acc 
 n a 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 anagrams 2 
 acc 
 n a 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 symbol insertion 
 acc 
 n a 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 reversed words 
 acc 
 n a 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 sat analogies 
 acc 
 n a 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 table h.1: scores for every task, setting and model that we investigate in this paper. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 figure h.1: all results for all superglue tasks. 

 

 

 

 
 figure h.2: results for sat task. 

 

 

 

 
 figure h.3: all results for all winograd tasks. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 figure h.4: all results for all arithmetic tasks. 

 

 

 

 figure h.5: all results for all cloze and completion tasks. 

 

 

 

 figure h.6: all results for all common sense reasoning tasks. 

 

 

 

 figure h.7: all results for all qa tasks. 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 figure h.8: all results for all reading comprehension tasks. 

 

 

 

 figure h.9: all results for all anli rounds. 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 figure h. all results for all scramble tasks. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 figure h. all results for all translation tasks. 

 

 references 

 adg 
 
marcin andrychowicz, misha denil, sergio gomez, matthew w hoffman, david pfau,
tom schaul, brendan shillingford, and nando de freitas.

 learning to learn by gradient descent by gradient descent.

 in advances in neural information processing systems pages

 

 ai 
 
wechat ai.

 tr-mt (ensemble), december 

 
 
 ajf 
 
roee aharoni, melvin johnson, and orhan firat.

 massively multilingual neural machine translation.

 in proceedings of the conference of the north american
chapter of the association for computational linguistics: human language
technologies, volume 1 (long and short papers) 

 
 
 bbdiw 
 
su lin blodgett, solon barocas, hal daum iii, and hanna wallach.

 language (technology) is power: a critical survey of bias in nlp.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 bcfl 
 
jonathan berant, andrew chou, roy frostig, and percy liang.

 semantic parsing on freebase from question-answer pairs.

 in proceedings of the conference on empirical methods in
natural language processing pages 

 
 
 bdd 
 
luisa bentivogli, ido dagan, hoa trang dang, danilo giampiccolo, and bernardo
magnini.

 the fifth pascal recognizing textual entailment challenge.

 

 
 
 bes 
 
stefano baccianella, andrea esuli, and fabrizio sebastiani.

 sentiwordnet an enhanced lexical resource for sentiment analysis
and opinion mining.

 in lrec volume pages 

 
 
 bhdd 
 
roy bar haim, ido dagan, bill dolan, lisa ferro, danilo giampiccolo, bernardo
magnini, and idan szpektor.

 the second pascal recognising textual entailment challenge.

 

 
 
 bht 
 
yonatan bisk, ari holtzman, jesse thomason, jacob andreas, yoshua bengio, joyce
chai, mirella lapata, angeliki lazaridou, jonathan may, aleksandr nisnevich,

 
 experience grounds language.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 blc 
 
yoshua bengio, nicholas l onard, and aaron c. courville.

 estimating or propagating gradients through stochastic neurons for
conditional computation.

 arxiv 

 
 
 bzb 
 
yonatan bisk, rowan zellers, ronan le bras, jianfeng gao, and yejin choi.

 piqa: reasoning about physical commonsense in natural language.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 car 
 
rich caruana.

 multitask learning.

 machine learning (1), 

 
 
 cb 
 
susan carey and elsa bartlett.

 acquiring a single new word.

 proceedings of the stanford child language conference 

 
 
 cce 
 
peter clark, isaac cowhey, oren etzioni, tushar khot, ashish sabharwal, carissa
schoenick, and oyvind tafjord.

 think you have solved question answering? try arc, the ai2 reasoning
challenge.

 arxiv abs 

 
 
 cgrs 
 
rewon child, scott gray, alec radford, and ilya sutskever.

 generating long sequences with sparse transformers, 

 
 
 chi 
 
eunsol choi, he he, mohit iyyer, mark yatskar, wen-tau yih, yejin choi, percy
liang, and luke zettlemoyer.

 quac question answering in context.

 arxiv 

 
 
 clc 
 
christopher clark, kenton lee, ming-wei chang, tom kwiatkowski, michael
collins, and kristina toutanova.

 boolq: exploring the surprising difficulty of natural yes no
questions.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 cly 
 
yen-chun chen, linjie li, licheng yu, ahmed el kholy, faisal ahmed, zhe gan,
yu cheng, and jingjing liu.

 uniter: learning universal image-text representations.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 cra 
 
kate crawford.

 the trouble with bias.

 nips keynote 

 
 
 dclt 
 
jacob devlin, ming-wei chang, kenton lee, and kristina toutanova.

 bert: pre-training of deep bidirectional transformers for language
understanding.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 dgm 
 
ido dagan, oren glickman, and bernardo magnini.

 the pascal recognising textual entailment challenge.

 in machine learning challenges. evaluating predictive
uncertainty, visual object classification, and recognising textual
entailment pages springer, 

 
 
 dgv 
 
mostafa dehghani, stephan gouws, oriol vinyals, jakob uszkoreit, and lukasz
kaiser.

 universal transformers.

 arxiv 

 
 
 dhkh 
 
nadir durrani, barry haddow, philipp koehn, and kenneth heafield.

 edinburgh s phrase-based machine translation systems for wmt- 

 in proceedings of the ninth workshop on statistical machine
translation pages 

 
 
 dl 
 
andrew m. dai and quoc v. le.

 semi-supervised sequence learning.

 in advances in neural information processing systems 

 
 
 dmst 
 
marie-catherine de marneffe, mandy simons, and judith tonhauser.

 the commitmentbank: investigating projection in naturally occurring
discourse.

 

 to appear in proceedings of sinn und bedeutung data can be found
at https: github.com mcdm commitmentbank .

 
 
 dsc 
 
yan duan, john schulman, xi chen, peter l. bartlett, ilya sutskever, and pieter
abbeel.

 rl 2 fast reinforcement learning via slow reinforcement learning.

 arxiv abs 

 
 
 dwd 
 
dheeru dua, yizhong wang, pradeep dasigi, gabriel stanovsky, sameer singh, and
matt gardner.

 drop: a reading comprehension benchmark requiring discrete reasoning
over paragraphs.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 dyy 
 
zihang dai, zhilin yang, yiming yang, jaime g. carbonell, quoc v. le, and
ruslan salakhutdinov.

 transformer-xl: attentive language models beyond a fixed-length
context.

 arxiv 

 
 
 eoag 
 
sergey edunov, myle ott, michael auli, and david grangier.

 understanding back-translation at scale.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 fal 
 
chelsea finn, pieter abbeel, and sergey levine.

 model-agnostic meta-learning for fast adaptation of deep networks.

 arxiv abs 

 
 
 fyo 
 
yaroslav fyodorov.

 a natural logic inference system, 

 
 
 gg 
 
hila gonen and yoav goldberg.

 lipstick on a pig: debiasing methods cover up systematic gender
biases in word embeddings but do not remove them.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 glt 
 
kelvin guu, kenton lee, zora tung, panupong pasupat, and ming-wei chang.

 realm: retrieval-augmented language model pre-training.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 gmdd 
 
danilo giampiccolo, bernardo magnini, ido dagan, and bill dolan.

 the third pascal recognizing textual entailment challenge.

 in proceedings of the acl-pascal workshop on textual entailment
and paraphrasing pages 1 9. association for computational linguistics,

 

 gra 
 
alex graves.

 adaptive computation time for recurrent neural networks.

 arxiv 

 
 
 gsl 
 
suchin gururangan, swabha swayamdipta, omer levy, roy schwartz, samuel r
bowman, and noah a smith.

 annotation artifacts in natural language inference data.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 gsr 
 
sebastian gehrmann, hendrik strobelt, and alexander m. rush.

 gltr: statistical detection and visualization of generated text.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 gwc 
 
jiatao gu, yong wang, yun chen, kyunghyun cho, and victor ok li.

 meta-learning for low-resource neural machine translation.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 hb 
 
daniel hernandez and tom brown.

 ai and efficiency, may 

 
 
 hbfc 
 
ari holtzman, jan buys, maxwell forbes, and yejin choi.

 the curious case of neural text degeneration.

 corr abs 

 
 
 hlw 
 
dan hendrycks, xiaoyuan liu, eric wallace, adam dziedzic, rishabh krishnan, and
dawn song.

 pretrained transformers improve out of distribution robustness.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 hna 
 
joel hestness, sharan narang, newsha ardalani, gregory diamos, heewoo jun,
hassan kianinejad, md. mostofa ali patwary, yang yang, and yanqi zhou.

 deep learning scaling is predictable, empirically.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 hr 
 
jeremy howard and sebastian ruder.

 universal language model fine-tuning for text classification.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 hvd 
 
geoffrey hinton, oriol vinyals, and jeff dean.

 distilling the knowledge in a neural network.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 hyc 
 
sepp hochreiter, a steven younger, and peter r conwell.

 learning to learn using gradient descent.

 in international conference on artificial neural networks 
pages springer, 

 
 
 hzj 
 
po-sen huang, huan zhang, ray jiang, robert stanforth, johannes welbl, jack
rae, vishal maini, dani yogatama, and pushmeet kohli.

 reducing sentiment bias in language models via counterfactual
evaluation.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 ibgc 
 
mohit iyyer, jordan boyd-graber, leonardo claudino, richard socher, and hal
daum iii.

 a neural network for factoid question answering over paragraphs.

 in empirical methods in natural language processing 

 
 
 idcbe 
 
daphne ippolito, daniel duckworth, chris callison-burch, and douglas eck.

 automatic detection of generated text is easiest when humans are
fooled.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 jcwz 
 
mandar joshi, eunsol choi, daniel s. weld, and luke zettlemoyer.

 triviaqa: a large scale distantly supervised challenge dataset for
reading comprehension.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 jn 
 
zheng junyuan and gamma lab nyc.

 numeric transformer - albert, march 

 
 
 jvs 
 
rafal jozefowicz, oriol vinyals, mike schuster, noam shazeer, and yonghui wu.

 exploring the limits of language modeling.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 jys 
 
xiaoqi jiao, yichun yin, lifeng shang, xin jiang, xiao chen, linlin li, fang
wang, and qun liu.

 tinybert: distilling bert for natural language understanding.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 jzc 
 
ying ju, fubang zhao, shijie chen, bowen zheng, xuefeng yang, and yunfeng liu.

 technical report on conversational question answering.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 kcr 
 
daniel khashabi, snigdha chaturvedi, michael roth, shyam upadhyay, and dan
roth.

 looking beyond the surface: a challenge set for reading comprehension
over multiple sentences.

 in proceedings of north american chapter of the association for
computational linguistics (naacl) 

 
 
 kks 
 
daniel khashabi, tushar khot, ashish sabharwal, oyvind tafjord, peter clark,
and hannaneh hajishirzi.

 unifiedqa: crossing format boundaries with a single qa system.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 kmb 
 
sarah e. kreps, miles mccain, and miles brundage.

 all the news that s fit to fabricate: ai-generated text as a tool
of media misinformation, 

 
 
 kmh 
 
jared kaplan, sam mccandlish, tom henighan, tom b. brown, benjamin chess, rewon
child, scott gray, alec radford, jeffrey wu, and dario amodei.

 scaling laws for neural language models, 

 
 
 kpr 
 
tom kwiatkowski, jennimaria palomaki, olivia redfield, michael collins, ankur
parikh, chris alberti, danielle epstein, illia polosukhin, matthew kelcey,
jacob devlin, kenton lee, kristina n. toutanova, llion jones, ming-wei chang,
andrew dai, jakob uszkoreit, quoc le, and slav petrov.

 natural questions: a benchmark for question answering research.

 transactions of the association of computational linguistics 

 

 kr 
 
yoon kim and alexander m. rush.

 sequence-level knowledge distillation.

 arxiv 

 
 
 lb 
 
edward loper and steven bird.

 nltk: the natural language toolkit, 

 
 
 lc 
 
guillaume lample and alexis conneau.

 cross-lingual language model pretraining.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 lcg 
 
zhenzhong lan, mingda chen, sebastian goodman, kevin gimpel, piyush sharma, and
radu soricut.

 albert: a lite bert for self-supervised learning of language
representations.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 lch 
 
xiaodong liu, hao cheng, pengcheng he, weizhu chen, yu wang, hoifung poon, and
jianfeng gao.

 adversarial training for large neural language models.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 ldl 
 
zhongyang li, xiao ding, and ting liu.

 story ending prediction by transferable bert.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 ldm 
 
hector levesque, ernest davis, and leora morgenstern.

 the winograd schema challenge.

 in thirteenth international conference on the principles of
knowledge representation and reasoning 

 
 
 lgg 
 
yinhan liu, jiatao gu, naman goyal, xian li, sergey edunov, marjan
ghazvininejad, mike lewis, and luke zettlemoyer.

 multilingual denoising pre-training for neural machine translation.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 lgh 
 
xiaodong liu, jianfeng gao, xiaodong he, li deng, kevin duh, and ye-yi wang.

 representation learning using multi-task deep neural networks for
semantic classification and information retrieval.

 in proceedings of the conference of the north american
chapter of the association for computational linguistics: human language
technologies 

 
 
 lh 
 
ilya loshchilov and frank hutter.

 decoupled weight decay regularization.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 

 
xiaodong liu, pengcheng he, weizhu chen, and jianfeng gao.

 improving multi-task deep neural networks via knowledge distillation
for natural language understanding.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 

 
xiaodong liu, pengcheng he, weizhu chen, and jianfeng gao.

 multi-task deep neural networks for natural language understanding.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 lin 
 
tal linzen.

 how can we accelerate progress towards human-like linguistic
generalization?

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 llg 
 
mike lewis, yinhan liu, naman goyal, marjan ghazvininejad, abdelrahman mohamed,
omer levy, ves stoyanov, and luke zettlemoyer.

 bart: denoising sequence-to-sequence pre-training for natural
language generation, translation, and comprehension.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 lm 
 
ke li and jitendra malik.

 learning to optimize neural nets.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 log 
 
yinhan liu, myle ott, naman goyal, jingfei du, mandar joshi, danqi chen, omer
levy, mike lewis, luke zettlemoyer, and veselin stoyanov.

 roberta: a robustly optimized bert pretraining approach.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 lpp 
 
patrick lewis, ethan perez, aleksandra piktus, fabio petroni, vladimir
karpukhin, naman goyal, heinrich k ttler, mike lewis, wen-tau yih, tim
rockt schel, sebastian riedel, and kiela douwe.

 retrieval-augmented generation for knowledge-intensive nlp tasks.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 lsp 
 
peter j. liu, mohammad saleh, etienne pot, ben goodrich, ryan sepassi, lukasz
kaiser, and noam shazeer.

 generating wikipedia by summarizing long sequences.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 lws 
 
zhuohan li, eric wallace, sheng shen, kevin lin, kurt keutzer, dan klein, and
joseph e. gonzalez.

 train large, then compress: rethinking model size for efficient
training and inference of transformers, 

 
 
 lxl 
 
guokun lai, qizhe xie, hanxiao liu, yiming yang, and eduard hovy.

 race: large-scale reading comprehension dataset from examinations.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 lyn 
 
sheng-chieh lin, jheng-hong yang, rodrigo nogueira, ming-feng tsai, chuan-ju
wang, and jimmy lin.

 tttttackling winogrande schemas.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 mac 
 
david. mackay.

 information-based objective functions for active data selection.

 neural computation 

 
 
 mbxs 
 
bryan mccann, james bradbury, caiming xiong, and richard socher.

 learned in translation: contextualized word vectors.

 in advances in neural information processing systems pages

 

 mccd 
 
tomas mikolov, kai chen, greg corrado, and jeffrey dean.

 efficient estimation of word representations in vector space.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 mch 
 
nasrin mostafazadeh, nathanael chambers, xiaodong he, devi parikh, dhruv batra,
lucy vanderwende, pushmeet kohli, and james allen.

 a corpus and evaluation framework for deeper understanding of
commonsense stories.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 mcks 
 
todor mihaylov, peter clark, tushar khot, and ashish sabharwal.

 can a suit of armor conduct electricity? a new dataset for open book
question answering.

 arxiv abs 

 
 
 mkat 
 
sam mccandlish, jared kaplan, dario amodei, and openai dota team.

 an empirical model of large-batch training, 

 
 
 mkm 
 
mitchell marcus, grace kim, mary ann marcinkiewicz, robert macintyre, ann bies,
mark ferguson, karen katz, and britta schasberger.

 the penn treebank: annotating predicate argument structure.

 in proceedings of the workshop on human language technology 
pages association for computational linguistics, 

 
 
 mkxs 
 
bryan mccann, nitish shirish keskar, caiming xiong, and richard socher.

 the natural language decathlon: multitask learning as question
answering.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 mpl 
 
r thomas mccoy, ellie pavlick, and tal linzen.

 right for the wrong reasons: diagnosing syntactic heuristics in
natural language inference.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 mwz 
 
margaret mitchell, simone wu, andrew zaldivar, parker barnes, lucy vasserman,
ben hutchinson, elena spitzer, inioluwa deborah raji, and timnit gebru.

 model cards for model reporting, 

 
 
 nbr 
 
moin nadeem, anna bethke, and siva reddy.

 stereoset: measuring stereotypical bias in pretrained language
models.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 nk 
 
timothy niven and hung-yu kao.

 probing neural network comprehension of natural language arguments.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 nor 
 
peter norvig.

 natural language corpus data, 

 
 
 nvnvdg 
 
malvina nissim, rik van noord, and rob van der goot.

 fair is better than sensational: man is to doctor as woman is to
doctor.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 nwd 
 
yixin nie, adina williams, emily dinan, mohit bansal, jason weston, and douwe
kiela.

 adversarial nli: a new benchmark for natural language understanding.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 or 
 
university of regensburg.

 fascha, 

 
 
 pcc 
 
mohammad taher pilehvar and jose camacho-collados.

 wic: example pairs for evaluating context-sensitive
representations.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 pfb 
 
jason phang, thibault f vry, and samuel r. bowman.

 sentence encoders on stilts: supplementary training on intermediate
labeled-data tasks.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 phr 
 
adam poliak, aparajita haldar, rachel rudinger, j. edward hu, ellie pavlick,
aaron steven white, and benjamin van durme.

 collecting diverse natural language inference problems for sentence
representation evaluation.

 in proceedings of emnlp 

 
 
 pkl 
 
denis paperno, germ n kruszewski, angeliki lazaridou, quan ngoc pham,
raffaella bernardi, sandro pezzelle, marco baroni, gemma boleda, and raquel
fern ndez.

 the lambada dataset: word prediction requiring a broad discourse
context.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 pnzty 
 
matthew e. peters, mark neumann, luke zettlemoyer, and wen tau yih.

 dissecting contextual word embeddings: architecture and
representation, 

 
 
 pos 
 
matt post.

 a call for clarity in reporting bleu scores.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 psm 
 
jeffrey pennington, richard socher, and christopher manning.

 glove: global vectors for word representation.

 in proceedings of the conference on empirical methods in
natural language processing (emnlp) 

 
 
 qia 
 
qianxin.

 sa-net on albert (ensemble), april 

 
 
 qmzh 
 
yusu qian, urwa muaz, ben zhang, and jae won hyun.

 reducing gender bias in word-level language models with a
gender-equalizing loss function.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 rbg 
 
melissa roemmele, cosmin adrian bejan, and andrew s gordon.

 choice of plausible alternatives: an evaluation of commonsense causal
reasoning.

 in aaai spring symposium series 

 
 
 rcm 
 
siva reddy, danqi chen, and christopher d manning.

 coqa: a conversational question answering challenge.

 transactions of the association for computational linguistics 
7: 

 
 
 rcp 
 
scott reed, yutian chen, thomas paine, a ron van den oord, sm eslami,
danilo rezende, oriol vinyals, and nando de freitas.

 few-shot autoregressive density estimation: towards learning to learn
distributions.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 rjl 
 
pranav rajpurkar, robin jia, and percy liang.

 know what you don t know: unanswerable questions for squad.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 rl 
 
sachin ravi and hugo larochelle.

 optimization as a model for few-shot learning.

 iclr (oral) 

 
 
 rll 
 
qiu ran, yankai lin, peng li, jie zhou, and zhiyuan liu.

 numnet: machine reading comprehension with numerical reasoning.

 in proceedings of emnlp 

 
 
 rnlvd 
 
rachel rudinger, jason naradowsky, brian leonard, and benjamin van durme.

 gender bias in coreference resolution.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 rnss 
 
alec radford, karthik narasimhan, tim salimans, and ilya sutskever.

 improving language understanding by generative pre-training, 

 
 
 ros 
 
r.s. ross.

 guide for conducting risk assessments.

 nist special publication 

 
 
 rrbs 
 
jonathan s. rosenfeld, amir rosenfeld, yonatan belinkov, and nir shavit.

 a constructive prediction of the generalization error across scales,

 

 rrs 
 
adam roberts, colin raffel, and noam shazeer.

 how much knowledge can you pack into the parameters of a language
model?

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 rsr 
 
colin raffel, noam shazeer, adam roberts, katherine lee, sharan narang, michael
matena, yanqi zhou, wei li, and peter j. liu.

 exploring the limits of transfer learning with a unified text-to-text
transformer, 

 
 
 rwc 
 
alec radford, jeffrey wu, rewon child, david luan, dario amodei, and ilya
sutskever.

 language models are unsupervised multitask learners, 

 
 
 sbbc 
 
keisuke sakaguchi, ronan le bras, chandra bhagavatula, and yejin choi.

 winogrande: an adversarial winograd schema challenge at scale, 

 
 
 sbc 
 
irene solaiman, miles brundage, jack clark, amanda askell, ariel herbert-voss,
jeff wu, alec radford, gretchen krueger, jong wook kim, sarah kreps, miles
mccain, alex newhouse, jason blazakis, kris mcguffie, and jasmine wang.

 release strategies and the social impacts of language models, 

 
 
 scnp 
 
emily sheng, kai-wei chang, premkumar natarajan, and nanyun peng.

 the woman worked as a babysitter: on biases in language generation.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 sdcw 
 
victor sanh, lysandre debut, julien chaumond, and thomas wolf.

 distilbert, a distilled version of bert: smaller, faster, cheaper
and lighter.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 sdse 
 
roy schwartz, jesse dodge, noah a. smith, and oren etzioni.

 green ai.

 corr abs 

 
 
 shb 
 
rico sennrich, barry haddow, and alexandra birch.

 improving neural machine translation models with monolingual data.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 smm 
 
noam shazeer, azalia mirhoseini, krzysztof maziarz, andy davis, quoc le,
geoffrey hinton, and jeff dean.

 outrageously large neural networks: the sparsely-gated
mixture-of-experts layer.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 spp 
 
mohammad shoeybi, mostofa patwary, raul puri, patrick legresley, jared casper,
and bryan catanzaro.

 megatron-lm: training multi-billion parameter language models using
model parallelism, 

 
 
 ss 
 
timo schick and hinrich sch tze.

 exploiting cloze questions for few-shot text classification and
natural language inference.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 stq 
 
kaitao song, xu tan, tao qin, jianfeng lu, and tie-yan liu.

 mass: masked sequence to sequence pre-training for language
generation.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 tfr 
 
josh tobin, rachel fong, alex ray, jonas schneider, wojciech zaremba, and
pieter abbeel.

 domain randomization for transferring deep neural networks from
simulation to the real world.

 in ieee rsj international conference on intelligent robots
and systems (iros) pages ieee, 

 
 
 tl 
 
peter d. turney and michael l. littman.

 corpus-based learning of analogies and semantic relations.

 corr abs cs 

 
 
 tl 
 
trieu h. trinh and quoc v. le.

 a simple method for commonsense reasoning.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 tlbs 
 
peter d. turney, michael l. littman, jeffrey bigham, and victor shnayder.

 combining independent modules to solve multiple-choice synonym and
analogy problems.

 corr cs.cl 

 
 
 tur 
 
project turing.

 microsoft research blog, feb 

 
 
 vbl 
 
oriol vinyals, charles blundell, timothy lillicrap, daan wierstra, 

 matching networks for one shot learning.

 in advances in neural information processing systems pages

 

 vsp 
 
ashish vaswani, noam shazeer, niki parmar, jakob uszkoreit, llion jones,
aidan n. gomez, ukasz kaiser, and illia polosukhin.

 attention is all you need.

 in advances in neural information processing systems 

 
 
 wpn 
 
alex wang, yada pruksachatkun, nikita nangia, amanpreet singh, julian michael,
felix hill, omer levy, and samuel bowman.

 superglue: a stickier benchmark for general-purpose language
understanding systems.

 in advances in neural information processing systems pages

 

 wxh 
 
yiren wang, yingce xia, tianyu he, fei tian, tao qin, chengxiang zhai, and
tie-yan liu.

 multi-agent dual learning.

 iclr 

 
 
 xdh 
 
qizhe xie, zihang dai, eduard hovy, minh-thang luong, and quoc v. le.

 unsupervised data augmentation for consistency training, 

 
 
 ydc 
 
dani yogatama, cyprien de masson d autume, jerome connor, tomas kocisky, mike
chrzanowski, lingpeng kong, angeliki lazaridou, wang ling, lei yu, chris
dyer, 

 learning and evaluating general linguistic intelligence.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 ydy 
 
zhilin yang, zihang dai, yiming yang, jaime carbonell, ruslan salakhutdinov,
and quoc v. le.

 xlnet: generalized autoregressive pretraining for language
understanding.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 zhb 
 
rowan zellers, ari holtzman, yonatan bisk, ali farhadi, and yejin choi.

 hellaswag: can a machine really finish your sentence?

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 zhr 
 
rowan zellers, ari holtzman, hannah rashkin, yonatan bisk, ali farhadi,
franziska roesner, and yejin choi.

 defending against neural fake news.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 
 
 zll 
 
sheng zhang, xiaodong liu, jingjing liu, jianfeng gao, kevin duh, and benjamin
van durme.

 record: bridging the gap between human and machine commonsense
reading comprehension.

 arxiv preprint arxiv: 

 

 
daniel m. ziegler, nisan stiennon, jeffrey wu, tom b. brown, alec radford,
dario amodei, paul christiano, and geoffrey irving.

 fine-tuning language models from human preferences, 

 

 
daniel m. ziegler, nisan stiennon, jeffrey wu, tom b. brown, alec radford,
dario amodei, paul christiano, and geoffrey irving.

 fine-tuning language models from human preferences.

 arxiv abs 

 

 

 
 
 feeling lucky? 
 
 conversion report 
 report an issue 
 view original on arxiv 

 copyright 
 privacy policy 
 generated on wed mar by l a t e xml